I believe that we are already at the
early stages if not in World War II. It
just doesn't look like the wars of the
past.
And people should understand what is at
stake, which is we are one
misunderstanding, one miscalculation
away,
or even one AI generated viral video
from nuclear annihilation.
Is there anything at all you're doing to
prepare? I'm leaving the United States
by 2026.
But is there anywhere on this map that
is safe in a war?
So my understanding is that there's
actually three safe zones.
You are right.
There's Hawaii. No, because there are so
many targets in Hawaii
and same with all of Europe, but there's
one tiny little place right there. So,
where do we find ourselves in terms of
conflict and warfare? Now,
it's getting worse. And in the past, it
was whoever had the strongest military.
Now, you can destabilize a government or
a society using a server farm and 20
people sitting in a room thousands of
miles away. And another real problem we
have right now is that the different
political parties inside the United
States are so intent on taking down the
other side. They do it at the national
security peril.
So now Russia or China can play people
off against one another and cause
division.
Angie, what do you think happens next?
Well, I think World War II is going to
be shaped by what we call proxy war,
where a wealthy nation state funds,
trains, and arms conflict in a less
wealthy state to decrease the capability
of your primary target. They're using
that nation to do the work for them.
Exactly. Right. That's already
happening.
Then what's the probability of nuclear
war?
So here's a terrifying detail that the
public does not know. So
wow.
Listen to my regular listeners. I know
you don't like it when I ask you to
subscribe at the start of these
conversations. I don't like saying I
don't like it being in there. None of us
like it. It's frustrating. Do you know
what's also frustrating? It's also
frustrating when I go into the back end
of the YouTube channel and I see that
56% of you that listen frequently to
this podcast haven't yet subscribed and
so many of you don't even know that you
haven't subscribed because I see in the
comment section you say to me, you go,
"I didn't even realize I didn't
subscribe." And that actually fuels the
show. It's basically like you're making
a donation to the show. So that's why I
ask all the time because it enables us
to build and build and build and build
and we're going for the long term here.
So, all I'd ask you is if you've seen
this show before and you like it, help
me, help my team here. Hit the subscribe
button and we'll continue to build this
show for you. That's my promise. Thank
you to all of you guys that do
subscribe. Means the world to me. Let's
get on with the show.
[Music]
I invited you all here today because I
intuitively feel like the world is
changing before our eyes. And I think so
many of us if we're on social media or
reading newspapers can feel a sort of
tension growing in society that is hard
to understand if you're not an expert or
you're not connected to these subjects
in some way.
I looked at some stats before this
conversation that kind of support this
feeling that I've intuitively had and it
shows that conflict zones across the
world have increased by 66% in the last
3 years. In December 2024, the American
think tank Atlantic Council asked about
400 global strategists about their
thoughts about what's going on in the
world. And 65% think that China will
evade invade Taiwan by force within 10
years. About 40% think there'll be a
world war in the next 10 years. About
50% think nuclear weapons will be used
in the next 10 years. And about 45%
think Russia and NATO will fight
directly. When we look at sort of
spending and what's happening there,
there's been a huge jump in military
spending. There's now 300,000 NATO
troops around the world that are on
30-day high alert readiness. 59 states
um have erupted in war since 2023, which
is the greatest number logged in any
year since 1946.
And world military spending is up by
about 10% year-over-year, which is the
highest sum ever recorded by SIPAR,
making it a full decade of uninterrupted
growth in military spending. Things feel
tense, and every time I turn on the
news, I have a mild sense of anxiety.
So, I've gathered you three here today
to help me as a muggle, as a normal
person that doesn't have an
understanding, pass through what's going
on and hopefully what we can do about
this. Benjamin, to start with you,
introductions. What's your context and
what's the perspective experience you
bring to this conversation? I
was born in Iran in 1977. I came to the
United States as a refugee under a
program that President Carter allowed
for Iranians fleeing religious and
political persecution. and my family
came here on that basis. And I basically
spent the next 40 some odd years trying
to understand why I come from a part of
the world that seems to be in sort of
continuous conflict and turmoil and
exactly what can be understood about the
forces that brought me here. I'm
incredibly grateful to be here and what
can be done to basically change or at
least better understand it to pave a way
for change and progress in the future.
What age did you leave Iran and what was
the environment like when you left? I
was just under three years old and it
was a few months after so the sha had
left in December of 79 and then um we we
left a few months after that around
March. Humeni had just arrived from
Paris on a flight in in February,
basically taking control. And there was
still a lot of anarchy and chaos as to
exactly what the new regime would look
like, what the government would look
like. But we began, my parents began to
see that there were some, you know,
there were there were definitely mass
arrests. There were protests. There were
things that were happening that look
like those who were loyal to the
monarchy would be targeted, which is my
family was a monarchist.
Annie, same question to you. What what
is the experience context that you bring
to this conversation?
I am an author uh a journalist and I
write about war and weapons, US national
security and secrets and I'm interested
in looking at the very sort of minutia
of weapons and weapons systems and the
people who use them. I've written seven
books and all of them deal with war and
weapons and all of them deal with the
Pentagon and the CIA specifically. So
all of my sources come from those
organizations, the military and the
intelligence community.
And your last book we talked about last
time you came on to this show. What is
your last book about? And what what sort
of journey did you go on to gather the
information for that?
So my most recent book is called Nuclear
War, a scenario. And in that book, I
take the reader from nuclear launch to
nuclear winter, which happens in a
period of 72 minutes.
And I interview presidential adviserss,
secretaries of defense, nuclear subforce
commander, etc., etc. People who are
very close to the chain of command,
people who have rehearsed making these
decisions
if they need to be made. And what I
learned terrified me. And from what I
the book has been out for over a year
now, still in hardback. People are
reading it in 28 countries around the
world.
This is a serious edge of peril topic
and I think we're here to talk about
that because
no no time in my life I think have we
been closer to thinking about this
reality than right now.
Andrew, there's a few subjects and words
that Annie mentioned there that also
cross over in your story. One of them
being
nuclear war uh and nuclear weapons. what
is your context and how do you what is
the sort of experience and perspective
you bring to this? What's your
experience?
Yeah, I am a former clandestine CIA
intelligence officer. Uh also a uh
decorated wartime veteran from the
United States Air Force during our wars
in Iraq and Afghanistan. Um I've lived
in this world that uh that we're talking
about, this world of conflict, the world
of nuclear threats, the world of
developing nations and uh political and
military force as a tool to shape
democracy, to shape diplomacy. Um, and
I'm very excited to get into this topic
because I think there are certain areas
here that are misunderstood, areas that
are overdramatized, and then areas that
are not being spoken about that are very
relevant and very compelling.
Wasn't there a period of your life where
you were underground and part of that
sort of nuclear chain of command that
Annie described?
Absolutely. That's where my career
started actually was with the uh ICBM,
the Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
Forces of the United States Air Force.
Uh overseeing Minute Man 3 missiles in
Montana uh armed with 10 nuclear
warheads each uh understanding the
military doctrine, the strategies, the
policies for how to execute.
So you were you were underground with a
physical nuclear key,
correct? Around around my neck.
And there are uh even as we have this
conversation now, there are hundreds of
US soldiers, hundreds of of Russian
soldiers that are in very similar
positions. And they're not they're not
much older than uh than a high school
graduate right now.
Many people think we're on the cusp of
World War II, but I think you've said in
the past that you actually think World
War II has already begun in some
context.
Yeah, correct. I believe that we are
already at the early stages, if not in
World War II. The problem is that people
seem to think that World War II is going
to emulate World War II. The deployment
of nuclear technology and nuclear
weapons now would look completely
different than the deployment of nuclear
weapons looked than World War II, if
only because we have nine nuclear
capable countries right now. Not to
mention the fact that we have a
completely different information
landscape. We have a completely
different political landscape. We have a
whole different uh landscape for
alliances and for treaties. The world is
very, very different than it was when
World War II broke out. So, you think
we're in World War II now or the early
innings of that?
And I think World War II is going to be
shaped by what we call proxy war.
What is proxy warfare?
Proxy warfare is when a wealthy nation
state uh funds and trains and arms
conflict in a less wealthy state uh
where there's usually some sort of civil
disturbance or civil fight that's
already happening. Much of what we've
seen in the last 10 years is is proxy
warfare. Libya, Syria, Yemen, people
argue that what we saw even Afghanistan,
Iraq, where the US was involved was
proxy warfare. Israel and Iran is model
proxy warfare. Uh Russia and Ukraine are
also models for proxy warfare.
So there's someone else funding it and
they're using that nation to do the the
work for them essentially.
Exactly. Right. You use a intermediate
nation that's still developing to
decrease the capability of your primary
target while you yourself conserve your
own troops, your own weapons, and your
own civilians against harm. Benjamin,
what's your take on that in terms of us
being at the start of the precipice of a
of a world war and it looking like a
sort of a different um different set of
weapons, a different way that we'll
fight each other and the internet and
digital warfare being a part of that.
I don't think since the the beginning of
the Cold War, let's say let's go back to
1947 or 48, I don't think we've stopped
fighting. I just think we're fighting
wars of different kinds. I think this
idea of kinetic warfare is less frequent
especially among the major powers. So um
Israel and Iran as an example of one of
the last few gasps of kinetic warfare.
But if we look at the United States and
China, United States and Russia, the
European powers, NATO, it's less kinetic
than it is more through um use of
information, through technology, through
cyber warfare. What's
so kinetic is when I refer to kinetic I
mean using actual physical memes bombs
missiles tanks um soldiers that type of
thing and it's less now and it's more
now moving towards other forms where it
you can now destabilize a government or
a system of government or a society
using a server farm and 20 people
sitting in a room thousands of miles
away and you don't necessarily need
weapons to do that. um where information
becomes weaponized where digital tools
become weaponized and that's far
different than anything we saw in the
20th century. So I think that the rise
of the internet in the late you know
beginning late 1990s through the 2000s
we've seen now this become
industrialized at scale and I think the
threat comes now from the ability of reg
of countries and regimes to destabilize
and interfere with others in a way that
they simply couldn't do years ago and
now you don't even need to fund it
massively to do that. It's basically
warfare on the cheap.
Mhm. Before we started recording, I
expressed to you that there's a certain
tension in the world right now.
Yeah.
Where's where's that coming from and why
in your perspective?
One of the things that's been evident to
us, especially since the the 2016
elections here in the United States is
this idea that we live in a post-truth
society. And with so much information
available to everybody on every
platform, through every means and
channel, there is now no monopoly on
objective truth or fact. And so with
that comes the ability to distort, to
propagandize, to mislead, to misinform.
And people do this to aggregate power,
to bring power to themselves. And so
when we live in a world where everyone
thinks they know everything or they are
afraid that they don't know enough, you
have a constant state of tension and
anxiety and people are uncertain about
their place in society. There's a, you
know, a wealth gap comes into play. And
with that, you feel like there's threats
or perceived threats or conspiracies
around every corner. And this is why I
think lies and misinformation and
conspiracy theories take hold in times
like this when people are anxious,
frightened, uncertain about their place
in society, about what's coming next.
And that puts us in a very tense state
and very clever people can take
advantage of that and manipulate to
their benefit. So that I think explains
why we feel this tension that we do.
The tension is clearly resulting in real
changes because those stats I read out
at the start where there's more nations
in conflict now. there's more military
funding. Um, more people think we're on
the verge of of something pretty
catastrophic than any time in the last
couple of decades. That information that
which is causing attention is then
having a downstream impact which is
conflict is breaking out.
I'd say it's upstream. Um, you have
polarization happening within societies
especially in western societies where
there is no monopoly on the truth or
news or information. you have the
fragmentation of let's say major news
sources. Traditionally, you have a few
very respected trusted sources and
authorities or figureheads that people
would turn to. We don't have that
anymore. It's now been diluted to the
point that it is almost meaningless. And
so, you see the social media has
contributed to this. And so with that,
these these with these divisions, these
schisms in society have made major
industrial powers like the United
States, like let's say the Europeans
more vulnerable to manipulation than
ever before. So now if you're a
adversary like Russia or China, Iran,
North Korea, you can take advantage of
the ability to tap into this
polarization and play people off against
one another, cause division, and that
allow and that destabilizes democratic
societies. And then that in turn
enables these countries like Russia and
China and others to have more leverage
and more influence in the developing
world. In the past it was whoever had
the strongest military. Now you don't
necessarily need the strongest military
to do it. You just need to have the
strongest um information army and the
willingness to do the dirty things that
Western societies don't do anymore, but
they used to.
I want to interrupt because I think
there's an order of operations here that
we're getting at that isn't clear. I
would argue that that ignorance starts
the foundation for the polarization that
is then capitalized on through this
information warfare landscape. So I I
say that because I think it's important
for us to understand that your your
statistics are relevant and correct.
Those statistics don't come first, they
come after. The ignorance kind of comes
first. the the the willing blindness to
what's happening in the world, the
willingness to just focus in on what
your tasks are or what entertains you
and let the rest of the world kind of do
whatever it's going to do. It's that
choice first that then leads to other
countries finding an opportunity to
manipulate the masses that are no longer
informed as to what's happening outside
of their world. I don't want to speak
for you, but that's that's kind of how
CIA handles clandestine operations when
it comes to information security
operations is understanding we're not
trying to make an audience ignorant.
We're finding an ignorant audience and
then giving them messaging to get them
to take action.
The difference is, so I would maintain
we've always been ignorant. The
difference is now you can actually do
something with that ignorance and
manipulate it at scale that you couldn't
before. So ignorance has always been
with us, but before at least people knew
where they could go to find what they
perceived to be a trusted source. So now
that source is gone. That messaging is
gone.
That skill is gone.
I have I have a different take entirely
which and I focus on narrative. So I'm
really interested in who tells the story
and who gets to control the story. And
what I watch happening a lot is that the
story is controlled for a while and then
it gets hijacked over and it's someone
else's story. So, it's kind of it's like
the end of the spectrum of what you're
both saying and you have the agency
working really hard to grab it back.
You've got the White House saying we
need to get our stakeholder press, you
know, and it's this. So, you're running
essentially like a kinetic war, a proxy
war, and an information war at the same
time. And I think that the information
is what is what drives most of this
conflict, which is why it's so
interesting to me to speak to diplomats
the only people not at this table,
right? That are like because then that's
only where I see the hope of kind of
like take it down because there's an
ease that needs to happen when you can
move the people from trust to paranoia.
I love that you mentioned diplomacy and
diplomats. So I I teach courses on
diplomacy and one of the things I've
seen emerge in the last few years is
this dichotomy between private
diplomacy, which is what we were used to
when we studied the Cold War and
postcold war conflicts and now we have
public diplomacy. almost all diplomacy
take take the um Iran Israel war the 12-
day war as as Trump calls it how much of
that war was conducted via social media
this is now so you have this public-f
facing diplomacy where you have during
wartime leaders their representatives
their proxies conveying messaging both
to their enemies to their allies and to
a supposedly neutral audience all
through social media right so it is not
no so much the nuclear age but the age
of the algorithm and how that amplifies
diplomacy in a way that never ever
existed. And so this is I think this
lends to that dilution uh that then
others can take advantage of because at
the end of the day if you want to
threaten a country or you want to garner
support, how you articulate that via
social media, whether you use all caps,
whether you use images, memes, all of
these things play into how effective
that is. And you see that most on Tik
Tok and when after the um October 2023
um uh Hamas attacks against Israel, the
information warfare between the two
sides and how it played out on college
campuses. I was at a, you know, a big
one where um a lot of that was taking
place at UCLA and how that played out on
social media and even among high school
kids who I talk to and their
understanding of conflict is now shaped
by what Tik Tok, which is partially
controlled by the um the Chinese
government feeds them and chooses to
feed them and amplify.
So, here's a specific example which
might be helpful to what you're saying
with the 12-day war recently. I think
the White House wanted that to just be a
bombing run. You can correct me if I'm
wrong. Just a bombing run. we're going
to go, you know, we're so power. It was
about power. It was about precision.
Take it out. And it was the press that
wrote, "America enters the war." Yeah.
And that is a major headline. And that
probably made the White House deeply
upset because they don't want to be they
don't want to be seen as entering into a
war. And so I think another real problem
we have right now with all of this
tension ratcheting up is how angry and
I'm just talking about America now. The
political sides are at one another that
to my eye because I'm an a-olitical
writer. No one has any idea what my
politics are. I write about war and
weapons neutrally. But I can observe and
it seems to me like the different waring
political parties inside the United
States are so intent on taking down the
other side. They do they do it from my
eye at the national security peril. In
other words, a a a headline against
Trump is better for them than US
national security or world security. I'm
curious what you Well, I think we're all
saying something that's that's uh
derivations of the same thing, versions
of the same thing, right? There's a
massive information warfare landscape
happening. And it is that fog of war
that we look through that gives us that
tension about what's actually happening
at the ground level. If you think about
conflict as being what what humans will
do to each other, there's layers on top
of that that create this this distortion
of what you can expect. And there's so
much activity in the information
landscape that it's very distorted what
could actually happen. We have a term at
CIA and when we talk about uh when we
talk about covert influence activities
to shape information, we talk about
volume and speed, which gets right back
to your point about Tik Tok and social
media. We've always engaged in
information warfare, but the volume and
the speed was much less and much slower
because you had to fly [__] pamphlets
and drop them out of airplanes and hope
that the people reading it were reading
the right dialect of Arabic or Spanish.
You had to hope and then once there was
a rainstorm, all of your pamphlets are
done. And if you're trying to make it
look like they're not coming from
America, they're trying There's all
sorts of other layers to that. Well, now
an algorithm that you don't even control
Yes.
is contributing to that. And then you've
got creators, content creators all over
the place that have no no added value to
the content they're creating who are
just clipping, cutting and and putting
things together and then further being
amplified, right? So the volume of
information is massive and the speed at
which it disseminates is huge and the
algorithm can dictate whether you see it
or don't see it at all. So, while I
appreciate your point of view that
there's this tension and there's this
growing concern, I honestly think that
your your opinion on that is because
you're informed and intelligent and
there are huge groups of people who are
completely oblivious to where we
actually are on a a sliding scale of
approaching conflict.
Where are we?
I think that's what we're really here to
discuss. I would argue that we are not
entering a phase of less conflict. we
are going to enter a phase 5 to 10 years
of more conflict, increasing conflict, a
willingness to engage in more kinetic
conflict to use your term. I don't think
that we're showing the various uh global
power competitors of the world that it
will not be tolerated. I think we're
showing the global power competitors of
the world that violence, kinetic
attacks, cyber warfare, weapons
development is going to be accepted.
My wish is that America could overcome
her tribal anger, you know, to to that a
lot of Americans have toward one another
that are in different political parties
because I feel like America is a leader
in terms of security and safety or can
be and should be and that all of this
amplification of the rhetoric is is
deeply dividing.
The fancy word is divisive, but it's
just dividing. And that if there's any
place that one's enemies or adversaries
or call them what you will is can take
advantage of that it is right there.
Is that wishful thinking
for me to say uh I am a very wishful
thinking person. I mean I write about
the grimmst darkest subjects imaginable
you know with a smile on my face because
I just am naturally uh I'm naturally
optimistic. I'm the mother of two you
know collegeage boys. Of course I'm
going to be optimistic.
Andrew was just saying that he thinks
there's going to be more conflict going
forward. We have nine nations now that
have these nuclear weapons that some
might argue creates stability, but some
might argue that it only takes one
individual. And you said there's what,
six nations hosting those nuclear
weapons. I don't know. Sometimes I think
I think gosh, you only need one
miscommunication or one mistake from one
person who is, I don't know, not doing
too well mentally or having a bad day.
That's kind of how I think about it. And
I'm like probabilistically if you just
stretch it out some point that's going
to happen. Some point that's going to
happen. Well, you're absolutely right
and that is why I mean it'll be
interesting if we maybe talk about Iran
just from the you know specifics about
what happened and you know why that's is
or is not important because I just
having looked at nuclear weapons so
microscopically
recently I believe that that existential
threat the global catastrophic risk of a
nuclear you know of a flame that starts
that movement toward a nuclear nuclear
use is a sort of line that must never be
crossed. And so while all war is
terrible, there is always a solution on
the other side of the war. The war peace
can be made, but not with nuclear. And
so that, you know, I look at things
right now through that lens, which is
how I saw the most recent bombing.
You mentioned uh Andrew talked about
Israel and Iran being a proxy war. So
that kind of piqued my interest. Um I I
almost reflexively want to disagree, but
I want to hear more about why you think
so, so I can better understand proxy
conflict from that angle.
Yeah. Well, the way I see it, um Israel
is ratcheting up its aggression against
proxies that Iran has been using to to
threaten it for decades,
right?
But Israel is also dependent on American
weapons to do that. It's also dependent
on American intelligence to do that.
It's dependent on American support
financially and economically. So it
needs America to wage its conflict
moving forward. If America were to say,
"Israel, we don't support you," then
Israel would take a different approach
without a doubt. So the funding, the
support, the intelligence flow, the
economic support coming from the United
States is what empowers Israel to
prosecute its conflict. Without that
support, Israel would take a different
approach to the conflict.
But then proxy would imply that Israel
is acting as an agent or at the behest
of the United States. So the United
States rather than getting involved
directly with Iran up until last week
operates through another entity.
That's the misunderstanding about proxy
war. You're looking first for some sort
of conflict that already exists. The
conflict between Israel and Iran already
exists. The proxy then the the the proxy
relationship happens when an outsider, a
third party, comes in and exacerbates
the conflict by putting more fuel on an
existing fire. It's not that that Israel
is the agent of of the United States.
It's that Israel's already wants to
prosecute some sort of conflict. We come
in and we're essentially the fuel to
help exacerbate that fight.
So, who's the proxy in this conflict?
Israel.
Okay.
Israel's the proxy for the United States
who wants to diminish Iran in the same
way that Israel wants to diminish Iran.
This specific conflict is so fascinating
because every [__] buddy wants Israel
to degrade Iran. Saudi Arabia wants
that. The United States wants that. All
of the European Union wants that. Israel
wants that. Everybody wants to see a
degraded Iran. So, Israel, especially
after what it's been doing in Gaza and
the humanitarian crisis in Gaza,
Israel's desperate for anything it can
do to win back favor for the Abraham
Accords as a democratic country. You
name it, it's looking for an option. And
Iran is a very convenient option for
them to build back relationships that
they've killed along with the the
attacks in Gaza.
If the reasons are different, does that
still make one a proxy of the other? So
Iran's uh Israel's objections to Iran
and it's it's the reason it sees Iran as
a adversary might differ from the United
States and there's a ven diagram.
There's some overlap but there's also a
tremendous amount that doesn't overlap.
Same thing with the Saudis, the Gulf
States, other regional states that see
Iran as a threat. They see it for
different reasons. Does that still, and
I'm not saying you're wrong, I'm just
trying to understand, does that still
make them a proxy if their motives are
different?
I would say yes, because it's not about
the parts of the ven diagram that don't
overlap. It's about the parts that do.
It's about the convenience of Israeli
citizens dying, Israeli soldiers dying,
Israeli weapons being spent. That's the
benefit of a proxy conflict. It's not
American citizens who are at risk. It's
not American soldiers who are dying.
It's not American weapons that are being
spent. We get to build our surplus. And
if anything, we get to build extra and
sell it to Israel, which is benefiting
our economy. So this is the the
uncomfortable truth behind proxy war is
it it's all the benefits of a wartime
environment without any of the risks.
But then what also happens and you can
look at Vietnam as a great example is
the proxy wars that are supposed to be
low cost for the United States end up
blowing up into being a disaster for the
United States.
So I think of Vietnam I think classic
proxy war. Right. Right. Kruef gave that
speech I think 1963 whenever it was
about wars of national liberation and
that they would be fought in what was
then called the third world Vietnam
being a classic case there I see
absolutely right first you had the
French you know in French Indochina and
then the United States bailing the
French out arguably the French were
maybe a proxy for US interests they were
part of that firewall that were keeping
the dominoes from falling but again I'm
struggling to I'm trying to understand
the Israel United States proxy angle
here um and That's a unique definition
of proxy, I guess. Okay, so you butt in
with an example. You tell me if this is
right or wrong. Yeah. So, in a weird
way, the Iraq war was a proxy war
for the same reason.
The Iraq war the 2000 which the
George Bush and Dick Cheneyy's Iraq war,
right,
were trying to weaken Iran.
You think the Iraq war was an attempt to
weaken Iran?
I mean, you you pipe in here, but that's
how it started. That was the original
intention. And the deep tragic irony is
what we have now which is Iran is
running Iran.
Why does the United States want to
weaken Iran?
The Iran the United States the United
States
because what happened to your family in
197 but why but but why does what's the
beef the US has with Iran? I mean for
400 and something days in 1979 and we
will not let that go until that is you
know
how is that how what is what does
justice look like? I'm not saying that's
Yeah. No, but I'm saying why why are we
at war with Iran or not at war, but why
are we at conflict with Iran?
I mean, I think there's a lot of
different a lot of different valid
answers for that, but
where I would take this, especially to
keep it um really accessible to the lay
person, right, is that the United States
wants zero competition for
being this the single superpower in the
world. It wants no competition for that.
It wants to remain the single superpower
everywhere because being the single
superpower gives your civilians gives
your population uh security but it also
means that you have the lion's share of
all the resources in the world and basic
economics teaches us that all economics
is based on resources.
So Iran's goals to create a Shia state
to create a Shia crescent of power and
influence across the Middle East
is in stark contrast to what would
benefit the United States. What the
United States wants is to maintain a
Sunni majority because that's where the
oil is coming from is majority for
United States. Sunni wealthy collegi
states even though Iran's the second
largest
not for the United States.
Yeah. Not for the United States.
But it was right during the United
States greatest period of prosperity
there. It was a bipolar world. So
unipolarity is something we've had since
the you know since the '90s onward. And
yes there's been tremendous success but
arguably unipolarity has been
destabilizing.
What's unipolarity? where you have one
world power basically dominating which
has kind of been the case since the end
of the cold war and now we've seen a
rise of other sort of polls maybe with
China being one but you had during the
entirety of the cold war was a bipolar
structure you had the Soviets you had
the US and they were dictating
everything else on the chessboard that
was the globe right in front of us and
arguably since the end of the cold war
the unipolar system has not been very
stable you could say that I think the
stats you cited the number of conflicts
have almost increased
um since that time what is what what's
the take away from that from what do you
guys think
I mean this is where I think academics
and reality butt heads
okay
because academically I agree with you
and on principle I agree with you the
world could be better
if it was multipolar
if we had a strong Europe and we had a
strong country in China and we had a
strong or a country in in Asia and we
had a strong United States and and if we
could find a way to cooperate
effectively and collaborate without
conflict. I mean, academically, all of
that sounds wonderful.
Well, I don't pretend that it's going to
be friendly or cooperative. I think you
can have multipolar where you still have
adversaries.
Yeah.
But the are the idea is that you're
saying that countries seek to be
unipolar. They seek to be global
hedgeimens because that gives them what?
No. No. Countries don't do that. Once
you are once you are a nearper
competitor, then you have no other
option in the reality of it except to be
the most powerful. This is why there's
only one Olympic gold winner for any
competition, for any specific Olympics.
You can't have a tie, right? It's the
reason why if there is a game that ends
in a tie, it goes into overtime because
you have to have a winner. That's like
it's it's human nature. I have to know
what my threat level is against you. So,
one of us has to be dominant and one of
us has to not be as it has to be second
to our dominance. And we can have
dominance in different areas, right?
That's why when I'm a guest in your
home, I follow your rules. when you're a
guest in my home, you follow my rules.
There's an element of that that's all
just built into our our DNA as human
beings. But what the United States has
is it has global hedgeimony. It has all
the benefits of the world's wealthiest
economy, the strongest currency, the the
lead on technology. We've diversified
our workforce so that we don't have to
rely on manufacturing. We have we
literally make money off of ideas in the
United States. Whereas a place like
China is doomed to try to have human
beings who do things with their fingers
to make money. So when you have that
level of power, you become very focused
on keeping that power. Talk to any
wealthy person out there and they'll
tell you the same thing.
But war is a zero- sum game. The
Olympics are a zero- sum game. Diplomacy
implies that others can win. Not
everyone can win equally, but multiple
winners can emerge or multiple losers
can emerge. We can all kind of share a
spot in the podium. two people can stand
in the gold section. You know, you can
split it. You can have a team sport,
right? Where everyone's getting gold on
that team if they win. Uh how is that is
that consistent with what culture? This
is where culture starts to lay in.
Yeah.
And I would say that the United States
is a zero sum culture.
I would say too.
Okay. I don't think it's pretty, man.
But I think it's the facts.
I also think it's interesting when I
hear you guys talk. It's like you can
imagine what it's like in the White
House. Imagine the president, he's
having some of his adviserss tell him
exactly this, like, you know, the the
kind of big we must dominate. And then
you have his military adviserss wanting
specifics having to do with what their
intentions are in their lane. And so I
think it's what's interesting for you
know the lay men which which I certainly
am on some level is that when you begin
the more information you get you know
this is like on the other side of that
information is actually a great thing
for all of us you can begin to
understand the context.
Okay wow that's you know Andrew said
that and that that makes sense now. So I
think then you start to see as an
individual the world makes more sense to
you. It's less threatening like what is
going on? Oh my god, World War III is
around the corner. But the president of
the United States lives in his own or,
you know, silo and has so much
incredible power. This just the longer I
report on all of this, the more I am
amazed at how powerful the president of
the United States is. And if we look at
the current president, how much more
power is being absorbed there.
And the the idea of them being in their
own silo. I mean,
no pun intended, but pun intended.
Absolutely. I mean traditional
traditional political focused
policydriven presidents they try to find
a way to reduce the silo effect. The
current president has done the opposite.
He's increased the insulation against
expertise from people who have forged
careers uh being becoming experts in
their field. Instead, he's surrounded
himself with voices that are that are
more interested in who knows media
intentions, future uh future political
benefits, but they're not necessarily
coming from an informed expertise like
what we've seen in previous presidents.
And that's where I think you use the
word context. Absolutely. I think that's
that's that's perfect to capture it.
It's the context. So, you know, content
is what the three of us are discussing
here. uh content context is what the
cameras are recording what editing is
done afterwards and then what gets
disseminated beyond there that is you
know in in in a broader uh scope that is
the algorithm that is social media that
is basically restricting the context to
whatever it the owners of that content
feel it needs to be and that I think
also contributes to this sort of
unipolar zero sum mindset and uh because
only one algorithm can win you can't
have competing algorithms we're trying
to have competing algorithms with with
with China and they're winning. Um I a
few um two years ago I designed a war
game simulation for a group of retired
military officials and we had some
prominent ex we had governors, senators,
national security staff uh role
playinging um White House situation room
and one of the things that was
interesting was my job I I designed this
game. It was meant to be what if a
second January 6th happened but this
time the insurrection comes from within
the military. you have defections from
the military,
National Guard bases, isolated bases,
right? Could the Pentagon be prepared
for something like that? What would that
look like?
And I had the White House was staffed
with this incredible social media team
that was meant to sort of signal to the
American people and to the the president
and to everyone else what's happening.
And I had four people playing the Red
Cell. The red cell consisted of
basically trolls, provocators who aren't
necessarily committed to overthrowing
but just wanted to, you know, to to just
wanted sort of the action.
It's like borrowing what what Heath
Ledger said is the Joker. Some people
just want to watch the world burn,
right? Or to He didn't say that, but it
was from Batman, right? And the havoc
that two or three people in a bar
were able to simulate or to create
versus an entire White House apparatus
staffed with experienced people. These
are people who who were on actual White
House comms teams who had the training.
We had military folks who had worked in
defense intelligence and you had two or
three trolls in their 20s who some were
veterans who were able to absolutely
cause havoc. And so that is the that
because the algorithm and I designed the
algorithm to amplify their stuff and it
and it and the White House could not
keep up.
That's fascinating. That's terrifying.
That is terrifying. That is where I
think the warfare and you know the idea
of World War II and conflict that is how
you get to zero sum that is how you get
to who emerges with the gold medal. I
think so to back to your point the
context who controls that silo who
controls the mic who controls the
aperture is going to matter more.
One of the things Donald Trump has shown
us is how much of an economy of
attention we really are in.
And just like having the most money
makes you wealthy in a fiscal economy,
having the most attention makes you very
wealthy in an attention economy. And
here's a man who even when he wasn't
president
was in the headlines every day. So it's
I think that the unpredictability of
what he's going to do moving forward
doesn't bring us closer to peace. It
doesn't bring us closer to uh proper
communications. It's I you mentioned you
know are we one miscommunication away.
If we are then we are in a very dire
place because there is a lot of
miscommunication happening. Well, I've
read the stories through history of
miscommunications nearly resulting in
nuclear war or some missile being
launched. I mean, Anna, you've studied
quite a few of those moments through
history. I was listening to one the
other day. I think it was a story of um
a Russian nuclear commander who who saw
something on the radar and he thought
the US was striking and for whatever
reason he decided to assume that it
wasn't and reported back to his his uh
sort of overlords that it wasn't a
nuclear strike and didn't press the
button. But everything on his radar told
him that the US had launched multiple
missiles. Are you familiar with that
particular story?
Y
what is that story?
He's called the man who stole the man
who saved the world. It was 1983 and he
was in a bunker in Russia. Their sort of
equivalent of we have a similar uh a
radar, you know, a system that's looking
at satellite tracking satellite
activity. And it was perceived that
America had launched missiles from the
Midwest, ICBMs,
and the, you know, you're absolutely
right. I mean, you told the story
perfectly. He decided not to raise the
the threat up the chain of command,
which would have put the entire Soviet
nuclear command and control on, you
know, massive alert. He just didn't do
it. And it was interesting because he,
you know, was sort of really bered later
by Russian command and control, but he
got the moniker, the man who saved the
world. There's a documentary about him
that's definitely worth watching. And
your point is what Secretary General of
the United Nations Antonio Gutirez said
recently, which is we are one
misunderstanding,
one miscalculation away from nuclear
annihilation
or even one AI generated viral video
that goes, you know, that the wrong
person gets the wrong idea from. Imagine
the Cuban missile crisis, how close we
came. And imagine if you had generative
AI content that made it look like the
Soviets had deployed or fired a missile
or anything to that effect. We saw
during this Iran Israel conflict, I
mean, how many videos on on X I saw that
showed devastation in Tel Aviv or
devastation in downtown Tan. I mean they
were obviously fabricated and AI
generated but the extent to which these
things were recirculated and spread and
that I saw sources who I would normally
trust sort of um amplified these not
knowing until someone else pointed out
wait a minute that's you know from a
video game or that's generative AI and
imagine if our decision makers didn't
have redundancies or self or fail safes
in place to be able to identify that
this is what that is and they acted on a
misread or something that they thought
was real. That's that's what concerns
me.
Are our intelligence forces more
sophisticated than that? Presumably,
they're not on Twitter or something
looking at videos.
Well, they are. They are there as well.
And that's that's a type of intelligence
called open source intelligence. Uh I
but the short answer is yes. Our
intelligence infrastructure is far more
sophisticated than that. The the
intelligence infrastructure for all of
the all of the for the majority of the
nine nuclear capable countries are very
very effective. France is very
effective. The UK is very effective. the
US is very effective. Even China's MSS
is very, very effective. So,
sophisticated intelligence services are
looking for corroborating evidence
before they make an intelligence
estimate. There is a challenge though,
and we're seeing it especially in the
United States where the the chief
executive just disagrees,
right,
independently, unilaterally, with what
his intelligence estimate is.
What you mean? You saw two examples in
the last few weeks, right? First you saw
um Tulsi Gabbard who's the director of
national intelligence and a position
that didn't exist until the failure of
9/11. That DNI position was born from
the fact that we needed to have more
coordination across intelligence
services. And she came out and she gave
an estimate that Iran was not imminently
capable of creating a nuclear weapon, a
weaponized nuclear device. Right.
And how would she know?
Because she's the director of national
intelligence. All intelligence. Thank
you. I'm It's It's obvious to me. I
understand. It's not always obvious to
everyone else, but all of the
intelligence services feed up. They feed
up intelligence that's been vetted,
corroborated, validated up through a
reporting system that goes to the
director of national intelligence whose
job it is to advise the president on the
current status of of the most quality
intelligence that we have. the president
as the chief executive uh is the one
person who the intelligence services
work for at the pleasure of the
president but his primary mouthpiece for
current intelligence is supposed to be
the DNI. So when Tulsi Gabbard says we
have no reason to believe the Iran is
imminently ready to prepare to create a
nuclear weapon. The president is
supposed to say thank you DNI and then
that becomes the information that he
has. Instead he disagreed with her and
then he said that's not the tr that's
not really what's happening.
Not just disagreed. shut her out.
Correct. Shut her out. Out of Senate
briefings, intelligence briefings, she's
been marginalized
and then she changed her opinion and
came back and and I want to hear your
disagreement. But then the second
example I have is after the bombing raid
uh of the three sites in Iran, the uh
DIA, the Defense Intelligence Agency,
which is charged with collecting
military intelligence from foreign
targets, came back and said that we we
may not have reached total obliteration,
Mr. President. And again, he disagreed.
and he's like, "That's completely wrong.
Total obliteration."
I have a a it's not a disagreement, but
it's more like a different POV on all of
this, which has to do with narrative,
which I'm very interested in of how
because the more people I interview at
all these different levels, I begin to
realize that we all are working from the
same set of human conditions, you know,
bias and and sort of like and really my
favorite one is the horse in the race.
you know, you have a horse in the race
of how you think and the way in which
you see the world. And I know as I get
older, what I try to do personally is I
try to notice where I am wrong and
instead of being defensive about it, be
like, I was wrong about that. That's
interesting because then you can kind of
evolve in your thinking and have a
bigger poo view. But I perceive
Tulsi Gabbert t making those decisions
from the lens in which she sees the
world and her platform is very specific.
You you could almost have discerned that
she was going to have that opinion. At
least in my opinion
she was a known commodity before she
became DNI. So this is the feeling. I
think what you're saying is we knew
yes
she was she she always saw the regimes
in that part of the world from a certain
framework
and her conclusion followed her
biases
biases her presuppos exactly
and they're just their pri priors is a
great word because because we all have
them there's nothing wrong with this per
se it's just that
because I would take a totally different
look at any of this if I was the DNI and
would be like
Mr. president. It's not as much about
these things that everyone's arguing
about did we because let's face it, no
one's going to know until time passes
the damage that was really done there.
Period. Full stop. You you know that and
we all know that. And so what you have
to say and again as a historian I would
say what's the best example of why we
should bomb this facility and the best
example would be North Korea because
Clinton all what so North Korea once
upon a time did not have 50 nuclear
warheads and the ICBMs to get them to
the United States to take out the United
States which is what I write there's my
bias my lens my point of view but I have
studied this and so it's interesting to
me that Clinton was going to bomb bomb
North Korea when they were in precisely
the same situation that Iran is now not
yet having a nuclear bomb and North
Korea promised that they wouldn't enrich
the uranium and this is in 1983 and
Clinton was preparing a military strike
and it was complex because a lot of
people in Seoul were going to die in
South Korea and then Jimmy Carter
stepped in and said I will go negotiate
the peace with the current dictator's
father and he did and everything was
honky dory Except for North Korea had
their hands behind their back and their
fingers crossed and they were lying
because that is what dictators do who
don't like America being the nuclear
superpower and being able to threaten
them. And if I was the DNI, I would say,
"Mr. President, this is the best example
of probably what is going on." That's my
bias rather than saying, you know, so
I'm but I'm interested in how the tribal
parts of America, which I find just as
dangerous as nuclear weapons. Not quite,
but um that's what I'm interested in.
And then everybody jumps on the story
that which is also true. The story you
tell is true. But what is your take on
North Korea, the bomb, Tulsi Gabbard? If
anything, North Korea is the I mean, I
never thought in my adult life I would
say this. It's the shining example of
why nuclear of why countries pursuing
nuclear capabilities will continue to
pursue nuclear capabilities because here
is a broken backwards poor [__]
despicable regime that we don't touch.
No one will touch them
because they've got nuclear weapons.
They have nuclear weapons. And now they
and now that now that we have literally
bombed a sovereign nation as the United
States, we have sent in we we ran a
bombing raid of a country that was
sovereign
its own borders with no no
which is why Clinton wouldn't do it in
the because of my god that was unheard
of. You don't do that.
And now that we have done that to incur
and prevent a country from getting a
nuclear capability that's our stated
intent. Now, our state intent may be
celebrated in most parts of this map,
but to the Iranian people and to the
people who are trying to climb up the
social ladder through technology, the
message they got is our our borders are
not going to be respected unless we have
something like a weapon, a nuclear
weapon that will keep people away.
So, now they have even more incentive to
develop a nuclear weapon than they've
ever had.
Correct.
Or and or sorry to cut or they might go
a different direction. It might say,
"Look at what a 30-year policy pursuit
of funding a nuclear program brought
upon us. It brought upon us death and
ruin." North Korea is a shining example
of a failed state. The only reason that
it hasn't basically toppled is because
the oppressive nature of the regime
against its own people and against the
outside world. Who wants to be North
Korea? Iran does not want to be North
Korea. It is a priious state of all
priest states isolated beyond belief and
a miserable place by all um you know
senses to want to live and exist unless
you're part of the ruling hierarchy. So
I would argue the Iranian people will
look at this the people mind you not
people are very different than people
are different from the regime. The
regime is about survive so they're going
to emulate North Korea
except that 100%
except that all they're going to do is
sew the seeds to their own downfall
internally because yes nuclear weapons
will shield you from the outside world.
They will not protect you from within.
Iranians are not North Koreans. That is
where, you know, they have demonstrated
a willingness to to die for rebellion.
I'm not saying this generation is ready
to do that, but you know, the only
reason I'm in this country sitting here
is because there was thousands of people
that were willing to do that. They will
do that again presumably. So great,
build your walls, isolate yourself from
the world, protect yourself from the US,
but you're not going to protect yourself
from civil conflict and civil strife and
tribalism. that will persist and it will
amplify uh because you know oppression I
think this is one of the great lines
from the um andor show uh first season
right oppression requires constant
effort and that constant effort is bound
to break at some point it is a lot of
work to keep your domestic population
repressed
that is not sustainable in the long run
history has shown that you can keep
others out but you can't but
except for North Korea
North Korea is the the only exception
and the reason is because they've got
terrifying
they've got they've got a huge patron
willing to prop them up but for China
oh China
but for China and to a lesser extent
Russia where would North Korea be Iran
doesn't have a savior
hasn't had a savior
and it's not going to it's not going to
be Russia do that I don't know that
that's the case because right now
there's an incentive across the eastern
block
to support Iran right now China China
and Russia and North Korea
who were already become becoming
diplomatically and economically tied to
Iran before this have all the more
reason to do so now.
Except none of them stepped forward in
ways that mattered in the last 3 weeks
to to to do something
that we know of. Yeah.
Well, you did. Putin gave a very
disconcerting speech in St. Petersburg
on June 20th where he talked about the
Russian scientists helping out Iran and
that I found to be very an echo of a
kind of a threat along the lines.
Correct. Don't don't make the mistake of
thinking that there hasn't been support
given just because we don't know about
support given. There's quiet diplomatic
channels. There's secret intelligence
channels.
I don't disagree.
There's just foreign language channels.
I don't disagree. I just don't think
Iran is the hill that the Russians or
Chinese will die on.
No, for sure it's not.
That's that's what I'm saying. At the
end of the day, there is no NATO article
5 equivalent where any of these
countries in the Eastern block will come
to the defense of Iran's sovereignty.
They simply won't. And now we go back to
the conversation about proxy war because
Iran becomes a very convenient proxy for
Russia and for China.
But nothing is more important than Iran
not having a nuclear weapon. Muhammad
bin Salman himself said if Iran gets the
weapon, we will also we Saudi Arabia
will get a nuclear weapon. And that's a
huge I think that's a fantastic
a fantastic parallel to why the world
doesn't want Iran to be nuclear capable
because a nuclear capable Iran would
force the Sunni uh Khi states to develop
nuclear weapons as well.
And that's nuclear World War II right
there.
Or or you don't even need to be nuclear
capable. Just be nuclear threshold.
That's enough. That's what Iran what if
every country in the region became
nuclear threshold?
What does that mean?
They're on the verge of weaponization,
but they're not quite there. So in other
words um uranium enrichment. So when you
when you find uranium in the raw it's
it's very low enriched like 2 to 3% of
it is pure. You enrich it you put it in
centrifuges you separate the parts you
want from the parts you don't. You
purify it up to 20% can be used for
energy or for medical uses. That's what
the nuclear non-prololiferation treaty
allows every country except those who
didn't sign it and the the five great
powers. Right. everyone else. You can
have energy enrichment, uranium
enrichment up to that 20% threshold.
Iran went beyond that. Went up to 60%.
When you go beyond 20, you're entering
into weapons territory. Weapons
territory, you have to get to the 90%
range, right?
Clean weapons.
Clean weapons. But anything between 20
to 90 gets you a dirty bomb, a
radioactive dirty bomb. Um, and so Iran
went there and said, "Well, we're not
quite at the 90 weapon 90% weaponization
yet, but why?" But they exceeded 20.
Every other country could arguably do
the same thing. They could say, "We're
not going to build a bomb, but we're
going to come very close where if we
feel that we need to do it in a matter
of weeks, days, months, we could quickly
do it if we think there's a threat."
That's a threshold.
Do you think Trump was right to bomb
Iran?
Do I think he was right to bomb Iran?
Um, I think diplomacy with Iran has been
exhausted with this leadership.
Can you explain that to me from because
I'm really keen to just understand where
this conflict with Iran has originated
from.
So Iran up through 1979 it had a it had
various monarchies. The Pathi monarchy
that came into power in the 1920s was
was the last dominant one and it had
built at least through the cold war a
close relationship with the west
specifically the United States. Iran
served as one of the two pillars of US
power in the Middle East. The Saudis
being the other. This is before Israel
became important to the United States
national security uh system. And so Iran
and the Saudis represented really a
projection of US power in the Middle
East. With the revolution of 79 that
went away.
We supported the sha and
and the the you tell it.
Yeah. Absolutely. Right. So the United
States and the sha the king of Iran were
extremely close. I mean this peaked
under Richard Nixon and Kissinger's time
and um as a result uh the sha became
very very wealthy looked to rapidly
modernize the country but what he didn't
do Iran experienced tremendous economic
growth but not political growth to match
it. So what happens when a country
becomes wealthy and becomes more
modernized becomes more European which
is what the sha was trying to do the
people wanted other things that Europe
had. They wanted free elections. They
wanted free press. They wanted freedom
of assembly. Right? They they wanted
democracy to go with their dishwashers.
The thing is is the Shaw said, "I will
give you all of the trappings of
modernity, highrises, air conditioning,
indoor plumbing, dishwashers, electric
appliances. But this democracy that you
want, that's pushing it too far." So you
had this rapid economic growth, this
uneven political growth, and there the
seeds of revolution were planted. people
were unhappy and they said, "Wait a
minute. Why can't we have the other
things to go with this this this
growth?" So, the revolution happened.
There's a bunch of different forces
coming into play, not just the Islamist,
but the Islamists were the ones that
dominated at the end. And they cleared
everyone out. They killed them basically
marginalized them. And they have three
pillars they stand on, three like if you
want to call it their their mission
statement. Number one is independence
from the West. The this Iranian regime
believes no more dependence on the West
like the Sha did. Number two is the
destruction of Israel or hostility to
Israel. That is fundamental.
Why?
Because they see Israel as an outpost of
American power and arguably not
colonialism, but they see Israel as a
projection of US power. They also see in
their attempt to go to pillar number
three, which is exporting the revolution
to other Muslim Shia countries, they see
Israel as getting in the way because it
represents this non-Muslim
entity in an otherwise Islamic part of
the world. So it's inconsistent with
their their their goal of expanding the
Islamic revolution. You can't do that
when Israel is literally in the way. So
it has to go or it has to be diminished.
And they've said that.
Oh yeah. This is this is Humeni, the
founder of the republic. The these these
are his three his his three principles.
So you have these three principles. You
take any one of them away, the whole
edifice, the whole thing falls down.
It's like a tripod. Break one of its
legs, it's got it doesn't have enough to
stand on. So diplomacy with the US means
ending hostilities with the West and it
means acknowledging Israel in some way.
This government cannot do that.
Otherwise, it loses all credibility. It
it spent 40 plus years saying these are
the things we stand for. If they all of
a sudden abandon those principles,
they're going to have no credibility
with the public. Then why why why should
they still be in power?
It's not because the public wants
hostility with Iran and Israel. The
public wants relations. But this
government is saying, "We oppress you.
we terrorize you all because we're
keeping you safe and we're adhering to
these three principles.
And that's 40 years of brainwashing as
well.
Absolutely. Of indoctrination. So
diplomacy had reached its end. To answer
your question, a long answer to a good
question. Was Trump right to bomb it?
Trump had reached the limits of
diplomacy. And with Iran being a nuclear
threshold state and with Israel after
the 2023 Hamas attacks realizing it
could no longer tolerate this degree of
a threshold Iran, the time to act, the
pressure was there. So I think um
and the opportunity of the way it had
weakened
the defense systems, the proxies,
their true proxies, Hezbollah and Hamas,
right? So I think there was a window of
opportunity and there's Iran simply was
not going to abandon its nuclear program
on its own. Diplomacy was not going to
get us there. They don't want to. It
gives them too much leverage
and it's never going to abandon its
nuclear program.
I've learned to not say never anymore in
in in
but with a regime change I think that's
a different story. But in the existing
regime they will the regime will keep
um itself in power that's my point about
nor you know that's the analogy to North
Korea. We can that you we all kind of
agree on is that you know their
perception is if we have a nuclear
weapon then the west really can't mess
with us. And and you mentioned something
else I liked. You said that you know you
I think when you were saying if in the
role of the DNI or the president you get
information you were wrong. Okay. You
have to reassess. Our leaders and this
goes back to sort of the topic of this
this book I'm working on. Our male
leaders especially suffer from cognitive
dissonance. Right. Cognitive dissonance
is when you have a set of beliefs and
you get information that is inconsistent
with how with your beliefs that makes
all humans incredibly uncomfortable. All
right. What do you do with that? Well,
there's multiple ways that we
psychologically try to neutralize that.
One of them is you change your view. You
say, "You know what? I was wrong." This
is the correct way to see things. Most
people won't do that. That's
embarrassing. Most men won't do that.
Most men in positions of power
absolutely won't do that. If they admit
that they're wrong, then what does that
what does that say? Right? So, instead,
they double down. They reinforce. They
become stubborn. And they end up then in
order to justify that have to act
aggressively. So we suffer from
basically men
I'm right problem I told you so exactly
so you have to reinforce your false
belief because if you don't it means you
were wrong
and if you're Donald Trump if you're
Kame if you're Benjamin Netanyahu and
you were wrong how bad does that look
you're you're out your credibility is
gone in this culture that we're in
right so that leads to the other problem
the cognitive dissonance that that these
world leaders can't seem to handle
you think we were right to strike like
Iran.
I think that we did the right thing at
the wrong time. And and I will say that
because the president of the United
States is the president of the United
States. He's he's earned the seat. We
wanted him there. We voted for it. He
gets to do whatever he wants. But
considering the politics between Israel
and Iran at the time, considering the at
least at the very least inconsistent
intelligence that we have about the
actual status of the weapons that Iran
was developing. And then uh the the
political position inside the United
States being where it was with failed
tariffs, being where it was with uh an
inability to negotiate peace in Gaza, an
inability to negotiate peace uh in
Ukraine, where it was, if it was the
right thing to do, we we certainly seem
to have done it prematurely along with
preemptively.
When would have been a better time? And
I'm not I'm not a proponent of war. I'm
just wondering, there is never a good
time. When would have been a better
time? I mean, if you want to if you want
to speak like a parent, then you're
right. There's never a good time, right?
But, um, first of all, I think a limited
bombing run,
that's that's not how you eradicate
that's not how you totally obliterate a
country's nuclear capability. You have
to commit to either multiple bombing
bombing runs, you have to coordinate
attacks. Um, and in this particular
instance, Israel made an offer to the
United States and said, "Hey, we would
like for you to come in and use your
bunker buster bomb, this technology that
only you have, but if you don't, we have
other options." I would have loved to
have been like, "Let's see those other
options. Let's see how far you can take
this on your own because you're the one,
Israel, that has an existential threat
from Iran. You're the one who's dealing
with and had phenomenal success with the
proxies in your area in your region. And
we are the country that currently can
continue to say that we don't violate
sovereign borders for now, right? We we
obviously invade Iraq. We invade
Afghanistan. We've had our history with
this and and we've had our history of
breaking international law and we we
always have the option to stop, you
know, bombing across borders. But
instead of waiting, instead of letting
Israel kind of exhaust all of their
options, we went in. And why? And did we
go in because it was in our best
interest or did we go in because it was
somebody else's ven diagram bigger
benefit and our ven diagram smaller
benefit?
I have a theory about that. But first, I
want to ask you a question about your
subject, you know, matter expertise,
which is when you said, "Let's see let's
see Israel play out some of the other
options because and I'm talking about
the covert action that they had planned
because boy was did you I mean the
leaked tapes that were on the Washington
Post, Israel's covert action teams, that
was pretty stunning to me." Absolutely.
And I think it's best if you explain
maybe what we're talking about because
the we're as close to your I'm as close
to you as the vein on your neck.
Absolutely. So, one of the things that
we're seeing in the headlines now and in
the near future for sure is going to
continue to be this this ousting this
collection of suspected spies within
Iran because now Iran Iran has been a
Swiss cheese of spies of MSAD agents uh
informants for MSAD inside of Iran for
MSAD. MSAD is the uh is the Israeli
external intelligence collection
service.
Their version of the CIA.
Okay. So, the Israeli CIA
Israeli CIA. Correct. One of the major
differences between MSAD and CIA is that
MSAD is essentially exclusively focused
on one major enemy to Israel and that's
Iran. So a 100 almost 100% of their
effort goes into protecting against this
one existential threat where the United
States CIA is collecting on everybody.
Right? So with that kind of intelligence
focus plus the budget that Israel has
plus its partnerships with the West and
the technology that it can collect from
the West, it it has a far superior
intelligence advantage over Iran. So
cutting in for a second here, these are
the trigger we're talking about what we
were talking about earlier with
groundbre. These are trigger pullers.
These are covert action operators that
go in and kill people.
We have multiple types of infiltrations
inside Israel or inside Iran. But to uh
to the point that she's making um the
the covert action arm of MSAD inside
Iran is massive. That's how they were
able to go in across borders and launch
drones. They're finding now thousands of
prefabricated drones inside Tan that
were being built by by assets of MSAD
that were being controlled by AI within
Thran. So that Israel could essentially
at a press of a button fly hundreds of
homemade drones built inside the capital
of Iran like fabricated inside Iran. So
this
by Iranians
by Iranians.
Yeah. So this
and the level of deception and sort of
paranoia that comes with all of this
territory is shocking and stunning and
correct and and Iran has suspected this
for a long time has known that it exists
but maybe never to what extent because
it wasn't a a imminent threat. it wasn't
an eminent concern and then it became it
became one with this run with this uh
series of activities against Iran.
I was reading about the pages the other
day and I had no idea. I'd kind of seen
something on my feed but I thought I'd
I'd research it and essentially Israel
had managed to get the Iranian forces to
wear pages that they had manufactured
with bombs inside them and then they
exploded exploded all the pages. I mean,
even more impressive than that, they
didn't get anybody to wear a pager. They
found the model and type of pager. They
found the supply chain. They found the
fabricator for that. And then they
infiltrated infiltrated the fabricator
to make sure that they input those
explosive devices into the same make and
model that was going to end up in the
hands of Hezbollah. And then
that was in Lebanon by the way.
Oh yeah, that was okay.
Lebanon. Yeah.
But that's a proxy army of Iran. The
other thing I want to point out is
Western intelligence, the CIA
especially, completely missed 1979. It's
one of its biggest biggest failures in
the modern era. Um, the United States
and other Western agencies, even Israel,
are notoriously ineffective when it
comes to, I think, fully understanding
what's happening in Iran. What the
Israelis accomplished with their Mossad
agents is remarkable. But in terms of
the sentiment, the mood on the street
and the people's appetite for this group
or that entity for whatever reason,
maybe you can shed light on this. I am
trying to understand why the United
States has such a poor history of
understanding going all the way back to
the 53 coup, a classic case.
Even MI6 doesn't get it right. How is it
that they're so bad at this there, but
they can seem to do it everywhere else?
You can't expect any intelligence
organiz You can't expect any
professional intelligence organization
to be right 100% of the time.
Intelligence is this is something that
people often misunderstand, right?
Intelligence isn't when you know
something to be true. When you know
something to be true, it's a fact. Even
if it's a secret that you know to be
true, it's a fact. Intelligence is your
estimation, your guess of what you don't
know because if you knew it, it would be
a fact.
How does something like October 7th
happen when there is so much
intelligence in the region and there's
these MSAD forces, there's the CIA. How
does was it hundreds of people stormed
the border of Israel and did this brutal
attack presumably they had intel that
that was going to happen?
Correct. I mean the the the findings
since the the day of the attack have
shown that there were multiple reports
there were multiple operators and
officers who escalated this problem. The
one of the downsides of democracy is
that when you have a bureaucracy that
has kind of has channels of command and
and people have to agree and and
collaborate and validate each other's
information, everything moves much
slower. So what uh and anybody can
contribute to this, but um for October
7th, the IDF was in charge of border
patrol, border security. The IDF meaning
the Israeli Defense Force, which is a
military unit. They were in charge of
the the location
where the attack happened and they saw
evidence of rehearsals and practice
attacks and they saw an an escalation of
conflict and they reported up through
the bureaucratic chain of command but
somewhere in that chain of command
somebody saw it differently.
Yeah, exactly.
And then Shinbet which is the
essentially the FBI equivalent uh in
Israel
internal security
internal security never got the complete
accurate memo from IDF. And then MSAD's
information on what may or may not be
happening was was obviously never uh
part of the finished intelligence that
did make it up to the policy makers. So
there were pl there was evidence that
was only really identified postfact
which is exactly what happened with 911
too. There was information that was only
identified after the effects.
And I think it's also the good old
cliche you know hindsight is 2020
applies in all of these situations
whether it's Pearl Harbor or 911. I
mean, intelligence failures are what
change the trajectory of history. But if
you do interview a lot of CIA people, as
I do, I often hear this, and it may or
may not be true, which is, Annie, no one
ever hears all the attacks we stopped.
And then I say, well, tell me about
them. They're still classified. You
know, so I mean that's why narrative is
so interesting to me because uh first of
all it it feels personal because you can
relate to it. Even if we can't relate to
being in the White House, we can
certainly relate to being stubborn about
not wanting to change our opinion or,
you know, putting together a certain set
of facts and saying we all probably do
this in our own home. Oh, this,
therefore, or that. And then we're
wrong.
I've built companies from scratch and
backed many more. And there's a blind
spot that I keep seeing in early stage
founders. They spend very little time
thinking about HR. And it's not because
they're reckless or they don't care.
It's because they're obsessed with
building their companies. And I can't
fault them for that. At that stage,
you're thinking about the product. How
to attract new customers, how to grow
your team, really how to survive. And HR
slips down the list because it doesn't
feel urgent. But sooner or later, it is.
And when things get messy, tools like
our sponsor today, Just Works, go from
being a nice to have to being a
necessity. something goes sideways and
you find yourself having conversations
you did not see coming. This is when you
learn that HR really is the
infrastructure of your company and
without it things wobble. And Just Work
stops you learning this the hard way. It
takes care of the stuff that would
otherwise drain your energy and your
time automating payroll, health
insurance benefits and it gives your
team human support at any hour. It grows
with your small business from startup
through to growth even when you start
hiring team members abroad. So if you
want HR support that's there through the
exciting times and the challenging
times, head to justworks.com. Now that's
justworks.com.
What happens next with Iran with this
whole tension with with you know they've
said that there's this ceasefire but it
doesn't look like a great ceasefire.
There's a crisis of legitimacy that this
current Islamic government has to re
reckon with domestically. They have to
now look look at their people and say,
"Okay, we we've basically failed to
defend you." That they're trying to spin
that narrative saying that they did
defend the homeland. And they're trying
to use nationalism as a sort of a salve
as a as a as a as a treatment to justify
or to explain or to sort of wash over
what happened. There's going to be new
leaders. The Supreme Leader right now
is, you know, frail. He's been frail.
He's been on the verge of death for
years now, setting aside attempts to
kill him. um and the the crisis of
succession, who comes next is going to
be now amplified much more, a greater
sense of urgency, and then whether or
not the next leaders of the revolution
of the revolutionary guard, which is
sort of Iran's um so just to explain
something, Iran has two militaries.
There's the Iranian military that
protects its borders and domestic
security, oddly enough, and then there's
the IRGC, the Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps, which is protecting the
revolution. The R in IRGC stands for
revolution.
The I does not stand for Iran. It stands
for Islamic. In other words, they are
protecting what happened in 79. They are
not interested in the country. That's
what the army does. The army protects
the country. The IRGC protects the
movement. And so the IRGC is the most
powerful entity in Iran. and what who
their next generation of leaders or next
level of leaders that rise up, what
their views are. Are they willing to
cooperate with the rest? Are they going
to double down on nuclear enrichment?
Are they going to take things
underground? Are they going to kick out
the IAEA permanently? Are they going to
pull out of the NPT? We don't know the
answer to these questions.
And what's the public unrest going to be
like? Can somebody emerge? Because you
cannot have resistance without a
movement led by, you know, a figurehead
of some kind. And this regime has been
incredibly good. In the last few days,
they've executed three or four potential
people who they think could emerge as as
I didn't know that they killed three or
four people.
About three, I think. Three. Three for
sure. There's a fourth. I'm waiting to
get confirmation. Yeah. People that
they're that they're afraid of
who could use this period of instability
and um uh and um deregulation to ferment
rebellion and insurrection. It's the
last thing. And that's where I'm going
to butt in here, and you're going to
correct me if I'm wrong, but if we were
in a different presidency and a
different era, like you know, this is
where the CIA would be in Iran and would
be fermenting
change because that is ultimately what
the American goal is,
which is absolutely should not be doing
ever. It did it in 53,
but I didn't say it should or shouldn't.
I'm just saying it would have meaning
not not should or shouldn't from a moral
perspective. It just simply doesn't.
This is it doesn't work. For this to
have legitimacy for decades to come, it
has to be organic, homegrown, freerange,
you know, grass. It
can sometimes hide itself so
dramatically that it's not even known
it's there.
Iran is not want
Iran is and again I say this as a as a
very proud Persian. Iran is different
than I think other theaters of conflict
where the CIA has operated. You know,
Iranian civilization and nationhood goes
back thousands of years. It's very
different. It does not take wealth. It's
not like Iraq, which is a fabricated
state. Didn't exist until 1917, 1918
after the Sykes Pico agreement or, you
know, the modern Middle East is very
different. So, you want the medal in the
Middle East, fine. But Turkey, Egypt,
Iran, these are nations that have
existed for thousands of years. That's a
game that the United States intelligence
agencies, and I would add, MI6, the UK
hasn't figured it out either. Andrew,
what do you think happens next in this
region? Are we going to reach peace? Are
they going to form an alliance with the
US?
So, I I'm I'm smart enough not to not to
debate um because I am largely ignorant
on the political divisions and internal
politics of Iran and I know that CIA has
very little idea of what's going on in
Iran most of the time also. And and I I
am suspicious that a big part of why we
went in at all was because Netanyahu in
Israel said, "Here's the intelligence
that we have." It's a very common game
in the world of intelligence. If you
have 80%, if you have 100% of of
knowledge, you're only going to share
20%. And you're going to share the 20%
that benefits you.
Do you think that's potentially what
happened?
I absolutely think that's
So you think Netanyahu in Israel could
have given selective intelligence to the
United States to provoke them to get
involved?
That's it. It only makes sense. It's
what a professional intelligence service
would do. It's it it's exactly what the
United States does.
And you don't think the US knows that
though that they're only getting
titrated amounts of information?
No. I I think I think even if they did
know that Netanyahu understands the the
Trump mentality of of horse racing.
That's Yeah.
Right. And and there's the world of
intelligence is a nasty nasty game. We
call it a gentleman's game,
but it's not at all. It's a it's a game
of of twisting people's distortions and
cognitive dissonance and playing into
biases and politics and and it's a nasty
nasty game.
So, what happens next?
What what I think we need to be prepared
for is that nuclear weapons are now
becoming less likely to be used. I think
the traditional World War II nuclear
weapon, the ICBM that's targeting a
civilian population, that is less likely
to be used. that is possibly full-on
unlikely to be used. But a dirty bomb,
what's that?
A dirty bomb being a 60% enriched
uranium deposit that's triggered through
some kind of explosive device that's
dropped off in a car trunk or dropped
off in a suitcase that
it doesn't have a weapon system,
but it just radiates the air.
You drive a truck in and you just
explode a a you know, it became
it causes like a like a radiation cloud
to hover above a city or a small area,
right? What about
that's what terrorists would have
What about tactical nukes?
And tactical nukes, I think, are also
something that we're very likely to see.
Since the end of World War II, what
we've seen is an increased investment
not in intercontinental ballistic
missile warfare, but in tactical nuclear
warfare. Tactical nuclear warfare are
warheads that are as small as 50 pounds.
And those can sit on the end of a short
distance rocket, a medium-range rocket.
Uh they can I mean they can be put in a
backpack and put on a put on a um a
drone for all intents and purposes. And
those tactical nukes have a very small
contained explosion, but it's still a
nuclear explosion. And the reason the
tactical nukes are so valuable is
because now you can use them against
military targets. So what we
I have a I have to totally I got to take
like can be used against should never be
said. Right. So that's my line in the
sand. Tactical nuclear weapons are not
are no longer in the US arsenal for
precisely that reason because they
cannot be used because the escalation to
strategic weapon nuclear weapons which
is one continent to the next big systems
big delivery systems is inevitable. But
keep going.
You're saying it's a slippery slope.
It's a
it's not a slippery it's it's a dividing
line. You can't even enter into the
slope. It's like if you get pushed off a
cliff there's no going back. It's not a
slope. It's a cliff in in my
understanding of nuclear war games and
everyone at the Pentagon knows that no
matter how nuclear war begins, it ends
in total annihilation. Which is why
America no longer has tactical nuclear
weapons in its arsenal. We used to we
used to have small nukes that you could
put in a backpack and jump out of a of
an aircraft and I know people who
rehearsed that during the Cold War.
You can definitively say the US has none
in its arsenal or none that we know of?
No, no, no, we don't. Now you can det
you could say that the ones on bombers
because we have a certain kind of one
nuclear weapon that that is on a that
can be flown in and it can be d its size
can be dialed down
and that makes it tactical.
Why have we got nuclear bombs then at
all if if we can ever use them?
That's the saying we can't have tactical
nuclear bombs because if we have we
would never use them and if we did the
world's over basically. So why do we
have nuclear bombs? Because the same
principle applies.
We do have nuclear bombs.
We might as well have the tactical one.
Absolutely. No. And I do believe that's
one of the wise the wise moves of the US
nuclear command and control
because the tactical ones will lead to
the big ones.
A thousand% not even 100%.
But if that's true, then why have the
big ones?
Well, that's the bigger question. But
our position on why we have nuclear
weapons is one word. It's called
deterrence. we are going to deter you
from using your nuclear weapons against
us because we have an arsenal and you
have an arsenal. It's this bizarre
catch22 paradox of why we can't get rid
of nuclear weapons.
We're now seeing we're seeing where
reality and policy butads
because Annie's right. The policies on
this are clear as mud, but they are
stated and restated over and over again
in order to get the American populace,
the American people to be able to
stomach the fact that we have all these
nuclear weapons. Right? The fact that we
put our nuclear weapons in five other
countries around the world, right?
Belgium is sitting there holding our
nukes. Italy is holding our nukes,
making them a target
and giving them a nuclear weapon in
their own border,
which they can't use, which they cannot
use without the president of the United
States authorizing it. So, it's very
precarious.
But who who would be able to use it if
they wanted to?
So, here's the every weapon is
different. Every weapon is different.
And and I I say this because the truth
of nuclear weapons is far scarier than
the average person understands, which is
a big part of why I believe like you,
they will never get used at a strategic
level because because the people who
actually handle the weapons, the people
that you're talking to, they understand
the devastating consequences of these
weapons, but the lay person gets very
very confused sometimes. So, a a small
warhead,
let's just say 30 kilotons of of
explosive power, right, which is still
twice what we dropped on Hiroshima.
A small warhead does an immense amount
of damage. It annihilates 10 square
miles, let's say, of of whatever it
wherever it explodes. If it's a surface
explosion, if it's an altitude
explosion, it doesn't destroy really
anything. It leaves an EMP footprint
that destroy that that shortcircuits
wiring, right? And that can be a huge
EMP. Thank you. An EMP uh pulse that
destroys everything beneath it.
What is an EMP?
An EMP is an electromagnetic pulse. It's
a it's a um electrical discharge that
comes from a nuclear detonation or other
sources that uh infiltrates through
technology, wiring, etc., etc., and it
shorts it or burns out the wiring. So,
think of like a massive surge. Like a
massive power surge. Yeah. Or you can
you can detonate them underground
underwater to create natural effects.
You can create earthquakes. You can
create tsunamis. You can create vapor
bubbles that are just destructive. So
there's lots of different ways that you
can use a weapon. But the thing that
concerns me is that because the US
policy is so black and white as it's fed
to the American population, it's that
much more inviting for one of these
other countries to use a nuclear weapon
in a specific way to create uh chaos to
create um a lack of clear acquisition.
For example, if a small Russian nuke
which lives in Bellarus because Russia
puts their nukes in Barus finds its way
into Tel finds its way into Kiev and
explodes in the back of a truck. Who do
you blame? Does the US blame Russia?
Does the US blame Barus? Does Russia
take responsibility for it? Does does
Europe say that it's an attack from the
Russians? What do you say? Because now
you just had a nuke go off and the
world's confused. And the same thing
happens if if China uses a tactical nuke
to destroy in the ocean in the South
China Seas. If China uses a tactical
nuke to blow up five Filipino ships,
what is that? It was a small nuclear
device that was used in a latoral
situation that was only attacking, you
know, military forces that were that
were quote unquote violating some sort
of uh free free space. What do you do
there? Do you That's not when you
launched ICBMs. So what do you do? What
happens there, Annie?
That's the nightmare situation. I mean,
attribution or rather nonattribution of
a nuclear weapon
figuring out where it came from.
Yes. When you don't because if a
strategic nuclear weapon is launched, an
ICBM, we the United States knows
precisely where it came from because we
see it from our satellite systems in
space in the first second after launch.
So that is the fundamental of
deterrence. Not only can you not launch
at us, but we will know in one second
and we will be back at you before yours
even get to us. That's how that works.
But what Andrew is saying is deeply
troubling. And another reason to our
conversation about why Iran should not
have the bomb or anyone for that matter.
It's dangerous enough that you have nine
nuclear armed nations um who could as
you say you know someone could in Barus
could wind up with something that's
incredibly dangerous but you do not want
anyone else into this mix
including non-state actors which which
would be Hezbollah Hamas the Houthis if
you're Israel the concern is not so much
that Iran will use it but Iran will
provide it to a non-state entity that is
not bound by any international law or
rules of warfare and Iran can claim
deniability that
and that's why President Trump bombed
for that's that's why
so imagine imagine Israel is one of the
nine
one of the nine nuclear capable
countries imagine this MSAD that is
absolutely capable of incurring across
Iranian borders smuggle in a 50 lb
tactical nuke and they take it and they
put it inside one of the testing ranges
or they put it inside one of the
facilities inside Iran and then they put
it on a time detonator and 13 hours
later it goes off. There's a nuclear
explosion underground in Iran in an
Iranian facility that we in this
simulation we know it's triggered by
Israeli covert action but the whole
world sees an explosion go off in Iran.
So now the president wonders did they
just run a nuclear test? Iran raises
their hand and say we did not run a
nuclear test. Somebody put a nuclear
weapon in our territory. Who believes
who? Right? What does Saudi Arabia
believe? [__] Iran has nuclear
capability. We're nuclear threshold.
Boom. Let's get it going. Japan nuclear
threshold. They start get their program
going.
And how bad does it look for Iran if it
admits that Israeli commandos or agents
made their way into one of the most top
secret facilities
right under their nose.
Right.
So I have a I have a curiosity which you
might know possible theory.
Some sick curiosities. I we we should
share a drink.
No, this is this is like a terrifying
one is that after October 7th,
President Biden
went to Israel himself. He did not send
Blinken. Remember that?
This was in our
That was a big deal. That was a big
deal.
This is in ours. This was not a man who
was, you know, out playing football.
Okay. He goes to the heart of the battle
zone. Why? My theory is that he said to
Netanyahu,
"There's one line you may not cross. And
if you cross it, we are not friends
anymore, ever again." And that's the
nuclear line.
That is my theory. No one's ever
Whenever I've asked anyone, they just
don't have an answer. Their lips get
very
get pursed.
Get very pursed and no one says
anything, which leads me to believe that
is precisely what happened. There's so
much going on around this map that sits
in front of us that is it all seems to
be happening at once with, you know,
Russia and Ukraine and you've got China
and with Taiwan. You've now got the
Middle East going off with Iran and
Israel and everything happening in Gaza.
It doesn't feel like this is going to go
the other way. It doesn't feel like this
is going to retract anytime soon. It's
funny because when Trump got elected, he
promised to like end these wars and
under his reign, it seems like there's
more wars popping up. And actually a lot
of this causes cover and distraction for
other people to start, you know,
invading countries that they they've got
a problem with. And we talked a little
bit about international law being
violated and new precedences being set
in terms of what you can do. We're now
at a point where it's kind of okay to
bomb a sovereign country. It's kind of
okay just to roll across the border and
just take what you want. So I think
that's where my concern starts. And I'm
looking over at the other side of the
map here with Russia and Ukraine and I'm
asking myself, how does that end? you
know, Putin can't just roll out of there
because then why why did he ever roll
in? I mean, it doesn't look like Ukraine
are going to hand are going to allow him
to take a part of their country. That
war is going to carry on. And then you
got China and Taiwan where the tension
has increased. And I think I read that
there's been more murmurss of conflict
or invasion going on with China in
recent times, which would probably be
now would be a great time. If you're
China and you want to take Taiwan, now
would be a pretty good time to do it.
Trump is busy. Not just busy. There's a
military test happening in Taiwan in the
next few days where they're practicing
or pre prepping for a amphibious
invasion from the Chinese People's
Liberation Army onto the the coast of
Taiwan. And so what have has the Chinese
government done in the last few days?
They have uh jammed GPS signals. They
have launched drones that are
interfering with radar uh basically and
um and and blocking shipping lanes um
legally within where they can be. But
the point being is that if you're
Taiwan, you're prepping for this
amphibious invasion that may not need to
happen because China can do plenty to
disrupt and make life for Taiwan
miserable without even setting one
soldier's foot on Taiwanese soil. So u
absolutely this is and and meanwhile the
US is is busy elsewhere. Look at the
missiles that were used to provided
Israel the THAAD missiles that were used
to defend against Iranian ballistic
missiles. Um it's been depleted, right?
So we're So if you're the US now, you're
at a at a weaker state of being able to
defend Taiwan than you were a month ago,
six months ago.
And there's also sort of a public
fatigue, right? Because now the the
public in the United States, they're
more polarized. There's even on the
right, there's some people that think we
should be going to war. On the left,
they think we shouldn't, etc. It's
getting quite murky. There's a lot of
backlash. And I'm sure Trump feels that.
Some of his closest media allies like
Tucker Carlson and half my Twitter feed
are saying he shouldn't have dropped the
bomb. shouldn't go to war. And I'm sure
that stuff gets to him. But Benjamin,
you believe I think that if there were
to be a trigger for World War II, it
would come from that region.
I think so. I think I think uh we would
see it in the form of a what we're
seeing now trade war, supply chain
crisis issues. We saw during COVID what
happens when the supply chains
disrupted. That was a sort of a a
nonhuman event, meaning it was, you
know, it was a virus. But imagine China
now banning the sale of all rare earth
minerals to the west, right? Um, these
are minerals that are used in the
construction of lithium ion batteries,
uh, microchips, processors, things of
that nature. And then imagine if China
says, "Look, we're simply not going to
sell these things to the United States
and its Western allies. Done. We're not
going to." What happens then? So, I
think a major conflict will be
precipitated by an economic and trade
war, which we're now basically in for
all intents and purposes. And until the
US can and western allies can diversify
by getting these resources elsewhere, I
don't know if occupying Greenland is
going to be the answer or making Canada
the 51st state will give us that. But
this is where the Chinese are very
effective. They have a large amount of
these minerals within their borders. We
know that there's a good amount in
Ukraine, which is why President Trump
wanted to make that deal with the
Ukraine to secure those mineral rights.
But these sort of this all goes back to
trade and technology. You don't need to
control territory for territory sake.
Now you need territory that has
something that's vital. Whether it's
oil, less so these days arguably, but
now it's rare earth minerals and access
to trade routes. That is where you start
messing with that, you are then lighting
the fuses of war,
which are already being messed with.
Everything that you just rattled off is
already in motion. It's already
happening. It's part of why I make the
claim that World War II is already
happening. If China invades Tyrron, if
if China takes Taiwan administratively,
judiciously, militarily, however they
choose to go in there, because we keep
thinking that they're going to like send
warships in and and and uh weaken the
the battlefield with missiles or
something. That's that's not how they
took Hong Kong. They took Hong Kong
administratively and then just moved in
the police after saying we have legal
right. That's exactly what they're doing
in Taiwan. They even have a a parliament
in Taiwan that's majorly uh pro-China,
right? So they meddled with the
elections in January enough to win a
majority in the parliament even though
they lost the presidency. Right? So I
actually and I think we're seeing the
same messaging coming out of Europe. If
China moves on Taiwan, the world kind of
does this and Taiwan's alone. Not only
because the president's distracted, but
also because NATO is distracted, Europe
is distracted, and the last thing
anybody wants is to fight over there
when there's so much [__] happening
over here. But the thing is they don't
even need to move in and invade. All
they have to do is block shipping
routes, which they can do.
No one's going to challenge them on
that. And basically stop selling these
rare earth minerals to every country
that wants them. What do we do then?
Russia's not selling us what it has. You
know, Russia can choose to do the same
thing.
Well, that's not going to turn into a
kinetic war. The United States,
right? Exactly.
It'll turn into more of what we're
already seeing. More tariffs and more
threats and more trade and more more of
the same stuff that we're already
seeing, which is a big part of why I
think we're already in the middle of
that is I agree. That is the war we're
in right now. It just doesn't look like
the wars of the past.
I think it was Biden that said or
suggested that if China were to invade
or take Taiwan, then there would be in a
war. We'd be in a war.
But it doesn't need to. It doesn't need
to. For China to win, it doesn't have to
set foot on Taiwanese soil. All it has
to do is basically isolate Taiwan
economically, trade-wise, and then dare
anybody else in the West or elsewhere to
do anything about it.
Will they do anything about it? That's
really difficult to see.
Even France, even uh even the president
of France just came out recently and was
like, "Yeah, you know, if uh if China
takes Taiwan, I don't think France is
going to get involved."
Yeah. All if if if we in the West can
find our minerals elsewhere, I think
we'll throw Taiwan under the bus.
And under the Biden Chip Act, that's
exactly what we're trying to do is find
our diversified routes.
Haven't we got some like sworn promise
to protect Taiwan?
Yes. the officially. Yes, we have a
sworn promise to def to protect Taiwan.
I think that the wild card in all of
this is the current president.
No one knows how he is going to behave.
And I don't really believe that there's
such a thing as him being distracted.
I think that he will put his focus on
whatever it is he chooses and then
that's becomes the attraction.
Yeah. Xiinping also knows that he needs
a win right now and he also knows that
there's a huge economic benefit by
ingesting Taiwan and Taiwanese
semiconductors and Taiwanese
infrastructure and Taiwanese
capabilities because all of the United
States IP for semiconductors was
developed here and it's all being built
there. So when you take that you get
everything there that's a physical
infrastructure and everything here
that's intellectual property.
Has the probability of nuclear war ever
been higher in the last couple of
decades?
I think the Russia Ukraine the Russia's
invasion of Ukraine a few years ago um
and the immediate first few months I
should say the first year was the peak
of the last few decades. I think we've
we've backed away from that a little
bit, but I think that was the peak. I
don't think more today than let's say a
year ago, but I think a year and a half
ago more so than you know the 20 30
years prior.
And do you think if Iran had developed a
nuclear weapon, they would use it based
on those three pillars you described
earlier?
No,
you don't think they would?
No, because the regime is not suicidal
because if they had used it and we'd be
able to track it, um they'd be
destroyed. And they are they are a lot
of things. They might be crazy. They
might be irrational in some ways. They
are not suicidal. They're not willing to
die for this. They want they want like
Hitler and the thousand-year Reich. They
want this to endure and it's not going
to endure with the develop which is why
they why Kam the Supreme Leader
maintained a threshold of
nuclearization. If you cross that
threshold to being a nuclear weapons
state, then all of a sudden he has a big
target on his back either from within or
from without. And his goal is to have
the regime endure for a thousand plus
years, not to have it be sacrificed at
the altar of nuclearization.
Andrew, what do you think in terms of
probability? Higher, lower?
I mean, I I will give you a number. I
think there's a 30% chance that we're
going to see a nuclear detonation
in our lifetime. And here's why. Here's
why. Because
tactical or does it matter?
I'm saying any detonation.
Any detonation. Okay.
The last known nuclear detonation was
2017. Unless unless I'm mistaken, 2017
when North Korea did a test underground.
That wasn't that long ago. And there
were a series of tests that they did
before that in an environment where
testing is not supposed to happen
anymore.
We are now entering a season of more
conflict. We're seeing more and more
strong authoritarian type leadership.
Even if it's in in the lead of a of a
democratic country, we're still seeing
strong man type of of shamebased
leadership. this cognitive dissonance
where people were leaders will go
contrary to where their what their
advisers say. Leaders will go contrary
to what's in the best interest of the
people's opinion in pursuit of some sort
of strategic or even uh tactical
political aim
with more advanced weapons with more
transnational threats than ever before.
Transnational threats are threats that
don't derive from a national identity.
they derive from something else like a
drug cartel or a radical Islam or
radical Catholic for all we care. With
the rise of transnational threats, the
opportunity for someone to get their
hands on something that's nuclear and
then detonate that nuclear device
somewhere is just too great and it's
only getting greater. It's only getting
more with new cryptocurrencies. People
can pay for things and and financial
transactions can't be tracked as easily
as they were in the past. We are
definitely in an era where it's getting
worse. And I remember people asking me
this question two years ago and I put
the chances at 15 to 20%. So in just a
year, a year and a half, I've literally
seen us move the dial in my opinion
closer to we will see a nuclear
detonation in our lifetime
than we have in the past.
Can I ask you just qualify something?
Sorry. Is it um state or non-state
actor? You think more likely? Because I
I I will I don't think it will be a
state I don't think it will be a clear
state actor.
Got it. Okay, I have a couple couple
thoughts on that where I may actually
answer the question. So, this goes back
to your terrifying point about
miscalculation or mistake. So, I think
that the mistake is where the real
threat lies.
People at this table may remember in
November the UK gave, and I'm talking
about the Ukraine Russia conflict right
now. The UK gave the storm shadow. Yes.
To Ukraine. We gave the attackums. These
are systems like missile systems
essentially to be able to you know go
further into Russia with for allow allow
Ukraine to fire further into Russia. And
Russia was pissed off and in response
they fired an intermediate range
ballistic missile capable of carrying a
nuclear warhead. Okay, this is the first
time in history that a ballistic missile
was used in this kind of a kinetic war,
a hot war. And I was on an airplane
leaving London to and I went, "Oh my
god, is this that situation where I'm
not going to land because there's a
nuclear war?" Because that is precisely
the kind of thing I write in nuclear war
scenario where something's launched and
the United States because we have a
launch on warning policy launches before
it lands because we're not willing to
wait to see what was in that warhead.
Now what was in the warhead was nothing.
The Russians launched an interrange
ballistic missile into Ukraine with
nothing in the warhead. Why? I mean this
is so terrifying. Well, we learned later
when Lavough went on television, he said
that he had notified his American
counterparts
in advance. I was taken to the State
Department to see where that advanced
notice came into. And it's called the
NERK, the National Nuclear Security
Center in the State Department. I'm
messing up the name, but it's known as
the NERK. It's inside the State
Department. And it's basically uh hello,
we're not at war.
room, meaning every 90 seconds you hear
bing
bing and that's all you hear. And I was
with the assistant secretary of state
who said, "Annie, that's the Russians
telling us we're not at war."
and Lav and she explained to me that
Lavrov
who's the Russian foreign minister
the Russian foreign minister when he
said on TV which went over everybody's
head including mine oh we notified our
American counterparts what did that mean
well what Mallalerie Stewart the
assistant secretary of state told me was
what it meant was that Lavaros rang up
the NERK and said you know we're
launching and it doesn't have a nuclear
warhead
that was such a big deal and I don't
think the average person understands how
big a deal that was when I think it was
called the Archnik.
It was called the Arashnik.
The Archnik was the newest, most modern
version of an ICBM, intermediate
ballistic missile, IMBBM,
that the Russian inventory had. We had
never seen it deployed. It's never been
it's never been seen before.
And it reminded the whole [__] world,
you do not want to go down this road. A
a ballistic missile is a terrifying
terrifying tool.
Why? It launches into the atmosphere
where it splits into three parts. The
rocket, the booster, and then what's
known as a MV uh almost like a you
imagine a revolver. Take out the piece
that holds the bullets of a revolver and
it's called a multiple re multiple
independently targeted re-entry vehicle
MIRV. A warhead sits in each one of
those canisters of the revolver and then
it on its own can move in space and then
drop warheads in different trajectories.
And then those warheads as they come
down from space, not propelled, as they
just fall from space, they reach speeds
between Mach 2 and Mach 20. And then
they come in contact with whatever
they're targeted. when there's a warhead
on there, that warhead also it's it's
scheduled to um to explode at altitude
at surface level or underground,
whatever they choose. But there's no
stopping that [__] weapon once it
drops the MV. Once the MV drops the
warhead, unless you have some sort of
tech that can intercept a Mach 20 to
Mach Mach 2 to Mach 20, which
no one has,
right? We claim that we have it, but
we've never actually tested it, right?
We try to in we try to intercept the
missiles on their trajectory or at least
when they're at their at their arc at
their precipice.
I don't think we've ever claimed to have
that you can that in terminal phase you
can take something out.
So um I I would want to fact check it
but either way but my point is when I
saw those lines of Mach 20 fire just
coming down into Ukraine I mean that's
the kind of when I went through nuke
school
that's the [__] that that kept me up at
night. I was like, we can't live in a
world that does that. And not only did
Russia show us we can do that, but they
said we can do this with a new weapon
system that you've never seen.
We can do it with a new weapon system.
And we're gracious enough to tell you
through the NERK, this tiny little
pathway of diplomacy 30 minutes before
we're doing this and you're going to
take us at our word that it doesn't have
a nuclear weapon so that we didn't
launch on warning. It's such a game of
chicken. It's nuclear chicken. It's so
dangerous. What if the Nerk hadn't
intercepted that signal properly? It's
incredibly dangerous. Now, one more
thought if I may, on Andrew's prediction
of a of a radiological bomb, a dirty
bomb going off, which may or may not be
true. Unfortunately, that's a tough
number. And I wouldn't necessarily
disagree just given how rogue nations
work, given that terrorists have, you
know, expressed a desire to use weapons
of mass destruction against the United
States, which a dirty bomb is. But in my
thinking, a dirty bomb, as horrible as
it is, and it's going to kill people and
make land, you know, unusable for
thousands of years, it's not strategic
nuclear war. In other words, that's not
going to cause the United States to
launch on warning. First of all, it's
it's it's immediately not attributable.
You don't know who who left it in the
truck and exploded it. And so, it's a
different set of terrible.
And I believe that a country like Iran,
if they had a nuclear bomb, has the full
capacity to do something like that
because look at look at the different
terrorist tactics that they've used for
the past 50 years. I want to ask if
something else concerns the two of you.
Um, I read this morning that uh it was
recovered in Ukraine, a Shahed
autonomous drone. Uh, these are drones
that the Iranian government manufactures
and and provides to Russia. They're used
in the Ukraine theater. And what they
found on there was that there was a
Nvidia processor. Nvidia is a western
company, tech company. They're known for
being advanced on their AI development.
And basically that this drone, this AI
had autonomous capabilities, meaning you
could completely jam it, cut off any GPS
communications to satellites and this
thing would think for itself, deciding
when and where to go and what to do. Is
that a bigger because that is here with
us. It's being used actively in warfare.
Is that a bigger concern than a nuclear
armed um a nuclear armed ballistic
missile or or re-entry missile of some
kind? Something like this that would
have a tactical nuke on it. Is that of
a drone with a nuke?
A drone with a nuke or a drone with
Exactly. A a drone that is a autonomous
drone.
Yeah.
Yeah. That's terrible.
This is fascinating. I mean, this is now
this is now they now have these drones
that are thinking for themselves in
Ukraine because they're anticipating
that they can't communicate with
whatever
to put a drone to put a nuclear weapon
onto a drone, you have to have the
nuclear weapon, which is the just the
circular discussion of why
which the Russians have,
right? But the Russians I don't see
putting a nuclear weapon on a drone.
No, but if they put radiological if the
Iranians put a radiological bomb, a
dirty bomb,
the Iranians, that's a different story,
right? All right. This is this is an
Iranian made drone using an American
microprocessor with Chinese
anti-GPS, you know, jamming uh techn. I
mean, it was I mean it was fascinating.
This thing is a is a is a is a
autonomous flying computer that can just
think for itself and decide in the
moment, okay, I'm going to do this
instead of that. There is no more human
real life human feedback or control
mechanism.
I think there's two really fascinating
things about your question, right? first
is that you just described a drone that
was a bastard child of Chinese, Iranian,
and Russian tech
and American tech
stolen American tech. But but my point
is when we think about the the future
landscape that's a perfect example of
this rising
power in the east this this
collaboration in the east that is not
based on ideology because those three
countries have nothing in common
ideologically but they have so much in
common pragmatically with the idea of
combating the west. So that's the first
that was really interesting to me. Now
the second thing, this idea of an
AIdriven weapon. I I am going to be
wildly unpopular. I promise you by all
the sci-fi geeks out there. I think that
AI powered weapons are the next like
logical evolution and a good evolution
for us because I would rather trust an
AI that's been programmed appropriately
with the rules of warfare and what's
properly engagement law and all. I would
trust that over an 18-year-old with a
gun who's been indoctrinated by like the
American like crazy [__] that we do to
get people ready for war. I would much
rather have some AI device that can't be
altered except by its own logical
process.
If the AI becomes self-aware and it's
preserving itself and can't so if
that's a huge if.
Yeah, that's the line. But that there's
a lot of ifs that have now slowly faster
than I realize are coming to fruition.
That's but that's the other concern.
Right. A
self singularity. Right. Right. a
singularity that becomes hellbent on its
own preservation, right? Which
again, that's those are two big ifs, the
singularity and then preservation, its
own self-preservation.
If if an AIdriven drone is meant to
target a specific enemy and it is um
noticing that it is being targeted,
it'll try to avoid being shot at or
taken down. Right.
It'll have countermeasures.
Exactly. And if it does so, if it has to
make the choice of, let's say,
detonating or going into a civilian area
and risking harm to a civilian
population that is contrary to its
mission objective, but to do so would
preserve its capabilities. It wouldn't
do that. That's what I'm wondering.
I mean, you're getting that self that
self-awareness.
That's what would most likely happen is
an AI an AI device like what you're
describing.
Yeah.
Would be would be programmed at the
mission set. It would come under fire.
It would be it would use its own best
judgment for counter measures. If those
counter measures were ineffective and it
was starting to to be to go down, the
next priority that it would have would
be to eradicate anything that's
intellectual property that it has on
board. Got it. So that's something that
we don't currently have. That's why it's
so dangerous when a B2 gets shot down
overseas. Everything
and also those systems from what I
understand are no longer going to be
single predator drones, single reaper
drones. They are drone swarms.
And so they work, which is its own set
of terrifying
Right. Drone swarms and kamicazi drone
swarms, no less at that where they're
they're designed to be destroyed, you
know, to hit their target and not come
back. The day that we see AIdriven
weapons is, I think, a day that most
veterans are probably looking forward to
because if you've seen the horrors of
war, if you've lost a friend, if you've
worn a [__] medal for shooting other
people, like it's it's a horrible
horrible thing.
But how does that change the friction of
going to war? because it makes going to
war much easier, right?
It does. It absolutely
much more digestible.
And that's I think part of why we're
seeing this appetite for conflict moving
forward, right? I think we we would be
doing a disservice if we didn't talk
about the complacency of the world in
accepting this rapid evolution of
conflict.
What do you mean the complacency of the
world?
We're all just sitting here watching it
happen. It's almost in a sick way. I
think there are people watching the news
in anticipation of the next conflict.
It's almost turned into a giant NASCAR
race. Who's the next what's the next
thing that's going to happen? The horse
race effect that you were talking about.
We want to know what are the body
counts. We want to know who's winning.
We want to know what's the newest
weapon. It's become almost almost
TV. Well, it made me when you were
speaking of the war game that you
designed and you were talking about two
trolls in a bar, you know, it's like
that's like
that's my band name, by the way.
Okay. But it's literal and it's
figurative and it's narrative. So, it's
very interesting to me and it's
terrifying because it really does speak
to what you just said where
the body count from far away on
television is not the same thing as the
horror of the person experiencing it.
Indeed.
Is there anywhere on this map, Annie,
that that is safe in a war? Because you
know I think as a way of dealing with
the angst of this in our group chat me
and my friends we when these things
start kicking off all the time I think
this is a coping mechanism we all like
share the fact that some of us are you
know down here on the map and one of us
is in Australia but then my other friend
unfortunately he's in like Dubai and
we're always looking at a map and when
the bombs are going off. Is there
anywhere on this map that is safe in in
the event of a nuclear war?
Mhm. There's one tiny little place, New
Zealand, and a little bit of Australia.
And that has to do with, if you follow
the idea of nuclear war, that
agriculture fails when we have a nuclear
winter and the sun gets blocked out and
there's no more. You know, there's large
bodies up in the mid- latatitudes are
frozen over in sheets of ice. And when
you have all the billions of people
dying, it's because agriculture fails.
And it is said by those who study this,
the authors of Nuclear Winter, that
there are some areas in Australia and
New Zealand which would remain viable.
But you're talking about kind of hunter
gatherer type people. Now among the
stranger conversations I have had since
nuclear war scenario published was with
several billionaires who actually have
bunkers in New Zealand.
No. Oh yeah,
they will remain nameless. But they were
very
I will not name them. I will not name my
sources. But they but what was
interesting to me it was that
um these individuals were
the response to reading my book and
realizing the world could end in 72
minutes wasn't let's all get together
and make sure nuclear war doesn't
happen. Or maybe it was and I just
didn't hear that part of the
conversation. But it was more about how
fast can I get my G5 um loaded so I can
get to New Zealand because a G5 can an
aircraft a person a private aircraft can
take you from Los Angeles to New Zealand
without refueling. And so I think what
I'm saying on a narrative level and it
speaks to the watching of TV or the
trolls in the bar is like and this is me
the parent speaking. It's like I really
believe in diplomacy. I really do
believe in communication. Um I'm often
accused of sounding polyianaish here,
but I will cite I I spoke of the Reagan
Gorbachoff
joint statement nuclear war cannot be
won and must never be fought. But what
preempted that was these two individuals
Reagan and Gorbachoff, you know, arch
enemies, the United States and the
Soviet Union. This is in 1983.
Ronald Reagan saw the movie The Day
After, A Great Narrative, uh, an ABC TV
movie about a nuclear war, and it so
upset him. He was Reagan being a nuclear
hawk. It so upset him that he reached
out to the archeneemy,
the Soviet Union, Gorbachev, and said,
"We need to have a dialogue and we need
to reduce our arsenals.
We're not going to live forever." And
when we think about all the existential
threats that are in front of us, some
people say the sun's going to explode or
some AI is going to get out of control
in pest control um scenario where it
just kind of takes us out or whatever.
But but it appears to me that the
greatest existential threat we have is
ourselves in this regard and that and
these weapons of that can wipe out this
planet in a couple of minutes are
clearly the greatest existential threat.
And there doesn't seem to be any way
back from that
which is a great opportunity to realize
you know this is the the pathway of more
wars is not the only way.
I have a a strangely more optimistic and
fatalistic um perspective here. So when
I look at this map, I think there's lots
of places that are safe in the event of
a nuclear conflict, especially if you
consider traditional nuclear conflict,
which is going to come from the the nine
states that are nuclear capable. You're
going to see whatever exchange of
strategic or tactical warheads happen.
You're going to see trade winds take
whatever debris comes specifically from
surfacebased detonations because uh
seedbased uh detonations and uh air
based detonations will not create the
same amount of fallout. So you'll see
trade winds do what they do. But in
large part you're going to see two
centers of the map firing at each other.
So South America is going to get spared,
Africa is going to get spared. Europe is
going to be absorbing bad winds
depending on what the trade winds look
like. Uh like Southeast Asia and
Australia largely these are going to be
spared locations depending on what
Pakistan and India do. Right? But my
concern isn't the nuclear factor. It's
the human factor after that. When Russia
or China and the United States and
Israel and and and Iran, when all these
countries are just destroyed by their
own conflict and whatever fragmentaryary
governments are trying to reset
themselves, you've lost all of that GDP,
you've lost all of that infrastructure,
you've lost all of that that world
order. So now people are just going to
get worse. African warlords are just
going to get worse. Latin American
warlords are just going to get worse. I
mean, it's going to be the age of the
warlord again. I don't know if that's as
much a fatalistic view as perhaps it is
a naive view because when one of the
components that you left out are the
fires that will be burning after the
nuclear detonations and the fires
burning are what lofts the soot and that
is what causes a nuclear winter. And if
you look at the climate modeling, even a
small air quotes nuclear war between
India and Pakistan is enough to cause a
mini nuclear winter. And so there will
be no African warlords because they will
starve as well. There will be no
resetting of any of these governments.
In my understanding,
interviewing the experts on nuclear war,
looking at the the climate models that
now tell us this very factually that
humanity
dies. And so I don't think it's a reset
at all, unless a reset is like us going
back to our huntergatherer state from
12,000 years ago trying to figure out
how to kind of evolve again. I mean
that's I don't think that human I don't
think that all human beings will be
lost. There will be human beings that
make it through that. And if there's if
there's modeling then the modeling is
based on averages. And I I I would love
to see how a nuclear winter spreads
across the globe. But the idea that
humanity would end meaning the last
human being would be lost. The
probabilities of that just seem
unrealistic.
No, I don't think it's an extinction
level event. I think it's a near
extinction level event. I mean that was
an idea that was first proposed by Carl
Sean based on the climate modeling that
was available in the 80s which was
pretty you know how the computers were
but now you're looking at this the
modeling and again this is just p based
on like soot going into the atmosphere
that you maybe you with your training
would be one of the survivors but the
rest of us
I'll tell you exactly what my training
when I lived underground in a silo
we knew that if a nuclear weapon went
off above ove your head.
Take your life while you can
because trying to survive what's left
behind is going to be worse. Dying as
your as your organs melt is far worse
than shooting yourself in the head
today. And that may sound terrible, but
what we're talking about is terrible
times.
What we're talking about is terrible
times. And nobody wants to try to It's
not like the movies and the TV shows.
Nobody wants to try to live through
that. You either get spared because you
are luckily on vacation in Patagonia
when it happens and then you just have
to figure out how to live off of [__]
weeds and and sheep or you're somewhere
where you can't avoid it. We often joke
in a in a dark kind of way. If you see a
mushroom cloud, run towards it because
you will much prefer the sunburn than
the survival rate afterwards.
My takeaway from what you said was
Middle Earth indoors. See, that's why I
said New Zealand. I was thinking I was
like, Benjamin,
Middle Earth indoors. Narrative. There's
your narrative.
I thought it was So, my understanding is
that there's actually three safe zones.
You are right.
There's Hawaii. No,
I thought it was Hawaii. Uh, correct me,
but I thought it was Hawaii, Greenland,
and New Zealand
because there's so many targets in
Hawaii,
Pacific Fleet.
It would be
a target
a target of nuclear catch. And same with
all of Europe
because I don't and you know when I talk
about a full-scale nuclear exchange I I
certainly in my book I'm talking about
thousands of warheads
you're talking about Russia and the
United States being involved in a
full-scale nuclear exchange.
How does that what's the sequence of
events that leads us there? Because
you'd think just launching one nuclear
warhead would would have a pretty big
impact. How big are our biggest nuclear
warheads in terms of the radius and
impact they can have? I'm thinking of
the movie War Game. Remember in the 80s
which kind of had a visualization of
that?
And in at that point in time we had
70,000 nuclear warheads. Now we have
12,300 appro approximately between the
nuclear armed nations approximately
10,000 of which are in the US and
Russia. So we each have 5,000.
Why do you need that many?
That's my point. That's that is the
point. That was the point that Reagan
and Gorbachoff began. And they it is
because of their initial work that the
world has moved in the direction of arms
reduction which I believe is the hopeful
the only hopeful direction that we must
move
when it comes when it comes to nuclear
strategy the this the sense behind the
weapon is that uh the average warhead I
believe is about 300 kilotons right now
a modern-day ICBM can carry about 10
warheads sometimes between three and 10
but they they try to minimize the number
of missiles by maximizing the number of
warheads. So the detonation from a 300
kg detonation is a specific amount of
space. I think it's like 50 miles orund
110 miles of blast radius and like 15 to
30 miles of of fireball.
So, when you are targeting the MV on
your destination,
the MV,
the multiple independently targeted
re-entry vehicle, the little um revolver
in the sky,
when you're targeting that, when you're
programming that to release, you're not
trying to hit the same place with 10
warheads. You're trying to spread your
warheads so that the blast radiuses
eradicate everything in the footprint.
So, you need 12,000, 10,000, 5,000
missiles per country. You need 5,000
warheads so that each warhead can cover
what 300 square miles and you can
blanket it across multiple strategic
targets and completely eradicate your
opponent's ability to wage a
counterattack.
And Russia are pretty paranoid of the
nuclear program and the United States.
So they created this dead hand system.
Mhm.
What is the dead hand system?
The dead hand system is exactly like it
sounds. It's from the Cold War. And it
was this idea, the paranoid sort of
pullet bureau was thinking, what if
those Americans do a preemptive nuclear
strike and kill us all before we even
have a chance to launch? We want to be
able to make sure that we end the world
and kill all of them. That's kind of the
idea behind it. And so they came up with
this system which is now known as the
dead hand because you could literally be
dead and have it launch anyways. And the
way it goes is that there are ground
sensors across Russia that would, you
know, sense the bombs going off and this
is kind of like early AI, if you will.
The computer would know that and would
then launch all of Russia's nuclear
weapons. all of them at the United
States, even if everyone were dead.
With time, probability increases.
Probability of something occurring. And
it's funny, I've seen there's been a few
people in the public eye at the moment
that have gone through sort of mental,
cognitive decline. They've experienced
bipolar and and um schizophrenia and
things like that. I just wonder if one
of these individuals who has these
nuclear weapons, these nine men around
the world, if they had some kind of
cognitive issue, could they could they
in their delirium or whatever
without anybody being able to stop them
tell their army to launch nuclear
weapons and that army would follow those
orders?
Don't you need two people to turn the
key?
They're following orders.
I think that I think that your question
the answer might be yes. I think the
answer is actually yes.
And what's interesting is like there are
certain countries nuclear arsenals that
we don't know about. Now I happen to get
my information on the most current
nuclear weapon systems from the
Federation of American Scientists has a
group of people led by a man named Hans
Christensen that lead a group called the
nuclear notebook and they gather the
most current information that can
possibly be known by anyone. and prepare
it for the rest of us to read and it
changes every year and they do a
phenomenal job but for example they will
tell you that we don't really know much
about Pakistan's nuclear command and
control we simply don't know we don't
know much about India's nuclear command
and control
is Russia's Russia's command and control
when I was in the silo at least was
still decentralized which it gave almost
autonomous launch decision to the
commanders at the silos themselves
what does that mean
so in In the United States, it takes a
validated order to clear a computer
system before the controlling officers
can launch the system.
So the president has got to say launch
and then
and then he gives an actual validation
code that gets carried in the nuclear
notebook and then any system that
validates the same code is now armed to
launch. Nobody can just launch.
So the president has what's called um
sole authority. He doesn't ask
permission of anyone. not his sect
staff, not the chairman of the joint
chiefs of staff. It's his alone. He may
ask their advice, but it's his decision.
He reads in the black book of the inside
of the football.
What's the football?
So, the football is that satchel that
goes around with the president 24/7 365.
Also, the vice president. Inside of that
are is a black book. That's what it's
nicknamed. It's called the black book, I
was told, because it involves so much
death. And inside of that are
predetermined strikes for all of our
enemies or adversaries who might ever
launch against us. So it's not a
decisionmaking. They're not sitting
around, okay, here's what happened. What
do you think we should do? It's do you
want to choose A, B, or C? And do you
want to go with subset D, E, F, or Q? It
was once described by a man who carried
that football as a comparable to a
Denny's menu. Each of those line items,
I'm I'm going to give it to you in
painful detail. Each of those line items
is followed by an authentication code.
And the authentication code is then put
into the football. That authentication
code is then sent to every nuclear
capable site across the United States
and any nuclear capable sites in Europe.
The authentication code will only work
to authenticate with missiles that have
the predetermined target set that was in
the black book. Now that the emergency
action message, the EAM that is received
by the missile crew, they can't
determine what it means. They just get a
message, an encrypted message. Then they
turn it and then they check the
authentication code against a bank of
authentication codes that they're given
every morning. A whole new bank that
recycles that changes every morning. If
it if the two codes match, only the
system knows. The crew does not know.
And then the crew the crew will follow
the action steps of an authenticated
message. If and then part of those
action steps literally include unlocking
a safe, pulling out a plastic wrapped
piece of paper that you crack open and
then from within that that piece of uh
plastic. You crack out another code and
that code is a specific arming code that
will arm the weapon system that you are
at. And then you go through the whole
check. It's a huge checklist of items
until you get the checklist item that
says insert your keys and the checklist
item where you have the commander of the
capsule count to three and then you both
turn your keys.
That's you're just following orders.
You're the whole time.
Did you ever turn your key?
We turn our keys probably five or seven
times a week because Eam are always
coming through and we never know what
they say.
EM
the emergency action message.
So you're they've set that system up so
that you don't know what you're doing.
You're just following orders. be nobody
who's
It's like a firing squad where
everyone's shooting, but you don't know
who shoots the fatal bullet.
Yep.
And by the way, everything that he just
described can happen. Not always, but in
as little as 60 seconds.
The terrible joke is they don't call
them minute men. That's the ICBMs for
nothing.
Based on everything you know, do you
think that if Russia launched a nuclear
weapon now, do you think the the US
would respond?
Not even a question.
But do you think they would even know?
Do you not think the person the
president for example would think? Not
even a question.
Really?
Not even a question.
Do you not think they would think it was
something else? I mean, there's been
times in history where they thought,
"Maybe that's something else. Maybe
we've made a mistake." They hesitate.
I think that your question is valid
because it's not truly instantaneous.
There are interceptors, there are
counter measures, there are second and
third order uh intelligence sources that
could be checked within just a few
seconds, right? One satellite
corroborates with another satellite kind
of thing. But all in, you have maybe
seven minutes to decide if you're going
to counteratt attack or not.
Seven minutes
because that's between when you pick up
the first satellite signature of a
launched ICBM or a launched submarine
weapon. depending on whether it's going
into the atmosphere or whether it's a
cruise missile that's coming straight
for your shore. Like at most you
probably have about seven minutes before
a counter code, a counter order has to
happen
because the nuclear bomb is going to get
from one continent to the other in
approximately 30 minutes. It's actually,
if you do the math like I did, it is 33
minutes from Pyongyang to Washington DC
and it's 26 minutes and 40 seconds from
Russia to Washington DC.
You know, we all kind of know Donald
Trump's ideology because we he's so
public. Do you actually think that he
would sit there and say see something
come and get the intel in and he would
listen to the intelligence? We just said
earlier that he doesn't listen to the
intelligence.
He might not. I mean that's that's the
that's the prerogative of the president
and it's and then I mean the other sick
part of this and Annie you can correct
me if any of this is stated. Even if we
don't react right away and everything is
destroyed, we have airborne assets that
will launch all of our systems after
complete annihilation of the United
States.
Okay? So even if we were wrong, the
submarines and the airborne assets will
still
That's why we have a trial. Again, this
always comes back to the to the
deterrence part of it, which is this is
why we must have all of this force just
in case because all of these
war games have been practiced and
rehearsed so often. this all.
But I'm going to tell you a terrifying
detail. I interviewed the commander of
the nuclear sub forces, Admiral Connor,
for my book. Not someone who normally
talks to journalists. When the book
published, he rang me up and asked me to
have lunch. Not something that often
happens to a journalist. I thought, am I
in trouble? Okay. I met with Admiral
Connor and he said to me, "You never
asked me about my time in the nuclear
bunker under the Pentagon." And I
said,"Well, how would I have known about
that?" And he said, he was curious that
I had reported that the public does not
know how often the Pentagon practices
nuclear war. We don't know. Andrew may
know. We don't know. It's classified.
And what Admiral Connor said to me was,
"You never asked me what I was doing in
the nuclear bunker beneath the Pentagon.
And you never ask me how often we
practice
preparing to tell the president that he
needs to launch
to your question. I mean, I'm at the
edge of my seat. And I said, he said,
"Guess." And you know, I started with
once a year, right? Because what do you
think? I mean, that's like terrifying.
And you know what the answer is?
Three times a day. They practice three
times a day telling the president that
there's a nuke coming into shore.
Three times a day. And I said, "Admal
Connor, why do they practice three times
a day?" And he said, "There are three
shifts at the Pentagon in the bunker."
And I I think the terrifying point that
we're making is to your question, which
is a normal human question. Like, wait a
minute, someone really wouldn't do this.
I mean, you would stop and think this
can't be right. You know, all of that.
That's the movies. That's that's not the
defense department. That's not the
system of nuclear command and control.
The system of nuclear command and
control is rehearsed for precisely
go at minute 7
and that is terrifying.
I also think that's why we're not moving
closer to strategic nuclear war because
you're you're capable you're nuclear
capable nuclear ready countries have
been doing this three times a day and
they all know what the [__] are we
fighting for if we if we do this
what's it all for like we're not we're
not going to win tomorrow there's not
going to be Putin on a pedestal or Trump
on a pedestal saying we won everything
will be destroyed
mutual assured mutual assured
destruction
so it makes much more sense for them to
hold their weapons and continue using it
as a as a deterrent. Not just a
deterrent for nuclear conflict, but a
deterrent like Russia's using it right
now. Nobody will get involved in Ukraine
and nobody will support Ukraine
incurring further into Russia because
everybody's afraid of what if. That's
the that's a huge ace in the hole. Every
single one of you watching this right
now has something to offer, whether it's
knowledge or skills or experience. And
that means you have value. Standstorm,
the platform I co-own, who are one of
the sponsors of this podcast, turns your
knowledge into a business through one
single click. You can sell digital
products, coaching, communities, and you
don't need any coding experience either.
Just the drive to start. This is a
business I really believe in. And
already $300 million has been earned by
creators, coaches, and entrepreneurs
just like you have the potential to be
on Stand. These are people who didn't
wait, who heard me saying things like
this, and instead of procrastinating,
started building, then launched
something, and now they're getting paid
to do it. Stan is incredibly simple and
incredibly easy. And you can link it
with a Shopify store that you're already
using if you want to. I'm on it, and so
is my girlfriend and many of my team.
So, if you want to join, start by
launching your own business with a free
30-day trial. Visit
stephvenbartlet.stan.store
and get yours set up within minutes.
What are you doing about all this
information and how you feel about the
global conflicts at the moment on a
personal level? Is there anything at all
you're doing to prepare or anything
you're doing to try and prevent it on a
personal level? Benjamin,
outside of my teaching, I mean, when I
do media appearances, I just try to talk
about this as much as I can. And I
design curriculum on media literacy. I
think teaching I I teach high school
kids, middle school kids how to consume
media. And at least if you can't learn
about it to be able to separate
information from misinformation and just
to and whoever I can get in contact with
and here's how you how you understand
and that involves understanding the use
of rhetoric, the use of political
persuasion or propaganda and just so at
least we can try to be better informed.
And is there a central concern you have
about the world we're heading into and
the new technologies and AI and all
these things that sits above all other
concerns? It's a breakdown of civic um
literacy that we don't understand how
governments work. We don't understand
how our government works on a local
level, on a broader level. And we lose
the civic connection with our literal
neighbors. We we don't care. We're not
invested in them. Their well-being is
not our well-being. And so it's every
person fights for themselves and I'm
going to vote for the person who yells
and screams the loudest. So I think um a
civic breakdown it leads contributes to
that polarization. That's what I concern
about.
Same question to you, Annie. Anything
you're doing to prepare and what's your
central concern above all others?
Well, on a on a hopeful pop, you know,
optimistic uh point, I would say that
one of the most fascinating moments for
me in this past year was being asked to
come to the Vatican to speak to the
cardinals about nuclear war, a scenario,
so that they could talk to the pope. And
this was Pope Francis when he was still
alive about his effort him about his
efforts for peace. So, how's that for a
paradox? Talk about nuclear war to think
about peace. And what I learned in that
process was that a lot of the hope lies
in getting individuals like the Pope,
like the United, you know, the United
Nations, these third parties that are
not government specific to help
engagement for these different nations
diplomats to have better conversations.
Mhm.
And so you have world leaders who in
essence I loved your point about civics
like just this idea about your neighbor.
I got the sense from the Vatican and I'm
not a Catholic but I got a sense of the
neighbor as a concept you know the
people and that you know yes we want to
have a really strong defense in the
United States. And I think that's an
important part of national security if
not the most important part of national
security. But you must also have a care
about your neighbor, others on the
planet. And I was really inspired that
this whole world exists out there that I
was not privy to before at the United
Nations, at the Vatican, and elsewhere
to get people to communicate.
And Andrew, I'm leaving the United
States, brother. I'm I am I am fully
engaged in relocating and immigrating
with my family. um finding one of those
safe havens around the around the world
where we can just plug in and become
part of a community, become part of a
globe uh understand and raise my
children as global citizens and global
citizens who are American rather than
American citizens who reject the globe.
Where are you going to go and when are
you going to go
or is that classified? Uh, so I'm not
going to tell really anybody where. I
might I'll tell you personally where,
but uh we had a plan to leave by 2030
and we're currently on track to to
execute that plan by 2026.
2026.
Yeah. So, um,
next year.
Yeah, next year. So, my I I already have
plans to change my appearance
significantly in December and then uh if
we if we have everything lined up
appropriately, then we'll be we'll be
leaving the country by spring of next
year.
Why change your appearance? cuz I don't
want to be identified anymore. I don't I
can't legally change like my name, but
uh but I don't have to be the guy that
looks like this all the time anymore.
I've changed my appearance before.
Well, I imagine it was your it was your
job, right? But but you have a YouTube
channel. You you you do a lot of sort of
public education, so you're going to
shut down the YouTube channel and all
those things.
No, I think what I'm probably going to
do is is only start serving my audience.
Like right now, I do a lot of serving
other audiences. It's why I love I love
contributing to your show. I love
contributing to other shows. Um, but you
know what I've found is that civil that
civic breakdown, just for anybody who
wants to do a thought experiment, if you
look my name up and go on any other
interview other than the ones here with
Dary CEO, what you will find is
thousands of ignorant, hateful comments,
questioning everything from my
intentions to my credibility to whatever
else. And that's not just me it's
happening to. It's happens to all of us.
I mean, you're mir your name is smeared
on a daily basis and it's because I am a
fan of you that my algorithm feeds me
all the [__] about you two.
That's the world that we live in. So, I
don't have to continue to feed
everybody. I can just feed my audience
and my audience won't care what I look
like. My audience won't care if I teach
them from behind an animated AI image of
myself, right? But I can continue to
teach without having to be the CIA guy
with the hair. if you were to make a
case for others to follow in your
footprints because I'm I'm somewhat
curious. You know, sometimes I have
dreams of running away and going to
like, I don't know, Bali or something
and just
New Zealand,
laying low or New Zealand. What would
that case be to someone like to someone
like me or to anyone listening as to why
they should maybe consider getting out
of this very polarized algorithm driven
reality that we live in?
I mean, you can get out of the polarized
algorithm without leaving the without
leaving your house, right? It just takes
a little bit of uh practice for your own
information security, for your own
information kind of insulation. Uh but
the case that I would make for for
really radically changing your life if
you're an American citizen is understand
that the United States is an is a
country of decreasing influence around
the world. And in many ways, the actions
that we've been taking recently are to
try to rapidly expand our influence
again. But we are declining influence.
And we should be. We should be. Our
strategy post World War II was to become
the world's bully and to benefit off of
all the economic benefits that come from
being the world's weapons supplier,
financial tools supplier, uh medical
supplier. Like we we wanted that
benefit. Well, now we find ourselves in
a position where we have no strong
allies. Like we have countries that like
us, but those countries that like us are
not strong on their own. So we have a we
have a weak Europe that's artificially
weak because we've kept them weak. We
have a weak Latin America that's
artificially weak because we've kept
them weak. So the only way to really
understand the existence of people
outside the United States is to get
outside the United States and not just
to tour outside but to live outside to
actually see what it's like to live on
the local economy, learn the local
language, understand the local culture.
I mean, you can walk around Porto,
Portugal, and you'd be depressed because
you see Soviet era buildings and
everybody's over the age of 50 and
they've all got their eyes downcast and
they look just totally defeated. But
only after you've been there a month,
two months, and you make a friend do you
actually get into a house and you share
a bottle of of amazing port and then
they light up because culturally they
don't get to be animated on the street
like we get to be in New York City. And
if you only live in the United States,
you have a perverted view of what the
rest of the world looks like. And you
have to get outside of the United States
to really appreciate what you have
inside of the United States. So you got
to get the [__] out to understand what
you're fighting for back at home. All
the people who are here who are just
spouting nationalistic dril, they don't
have any idea what they're actually
fighting for.
So the reason why you're taking your
children out of the country is so that
they know what they're fighting for. so
they understand and appreciate what it
means to be American, not what it means
to be polarized, not what it means to
be, you know, whatever whether whether
you're uh New Yorker or whether you're
Colorado or whether you're Fidian, but
to actually understand like, hey, we
have a democracy that we need to
nourish. We should be proud to serve.
The men and women in uniform are making
a genuine sacrifice. There's there's
something special about the United
States. Unfortunately, the people inside
the United States don't understand that
for the most part.
Benjamin, you talk a lot about deep
fakes and AI and stuff. And as Andrew
was saying there, it's um especially as
someone like me who's a podcaster and
I've built an audience. And so when
something goes on the internet, it gets
more clicks than it used to get.
So there's this whole like like deep
fake war that we're much of my team
actually that are in the back there, my
chief of staff etc. spends most of her
time fighting at the moment, which is
every single day there's a new deep fake
ad video. They'll take videos from this
podcast conversation, change slightly
how my lips are moving and get me to
promote WhatsApp groups or uh various
other things. And there's there's a
spectrum to this. The one end of the
spectrum is so horrific that I probably
actually couldn't say it on this show,
but there's a really horrific spectrum
to this. And it's um it's it's almost
emerged out of nowhere in the last I'd
say six months. Like in the last six
months is really when it took hold to
the point that every single day it is
some it's part of my day. Every single
day I'm emailing this one thread that I
have with Meta in Facebook telling them
this is a new one. This morning I
emailed them. Just a screenshot of a
lady who lost £3,000. She's a single
mother. Um she loves the show so she
listens to me and something came up in
her feed and it was me telling her to
join a group and she joined the group
and she's lost £3,000. And she was
saying she said to me in the message I
can actually read it out. She said,
"I'll never trust anything on the
internet ever again." And it was sad
because she's a single mother that tried
to do something for herself to help her
family. Interesting digital times. And
you talk about this quite a lot, the
impact. Is there any way for us to
prepare? Is there anything that we can
can do?
One of the the big takeaways from the
the war game that I did uh and um there
was a documentary film that was made on
it called War Game. And what I noticed
was that it comes to all this is a
crisis. So regardless of the crisis, the
best you can do is manage it. You're not
going to win it. You're not going to
defeat it. You will not overcome the
forces of u misinformation and and
generative AI manipulating you or what
you're saying and your followers. The
best you can do is manage. And you
manage by educating
people as much as you can on how to on
on understanding how rhetorical
manipulative influence works,
understanding what, you know, Aristotle
taught us these techniques a very long
time ago and they're still in force
today. And it's the use of, you know,
um, appeal to emotion, appeal to reason,
appeal to credibility. I I the I the
curriculum that I develop teaches
beginning with kids so that when you by
the time because by the time they get to
college at university, it's too late. I
need to teach them and we need to teach
them young enough to understand. If
someone is asking of you something on
the internet, someone you think you
trust, pay attention to their tone, what
words are they using? What what are they
are they appealing to you emotionally
and know right away that that's a clue
that that might be where you're
vulnerable emotionally. You're
susceptible to someone who says this or
to this cause or to that issue. That's
the best we can do. When I say manage,
and I'm sorry, I don't have a better
answer, but the best you can do is just
say,
"Let me let me teach you how
manipulation works and how uh and how
misinformation works so that it
hopefully you can recognize it or it or
it strikes a chord." So, if you ever
come across something, you'll say,
"Okay, I've seen this before."
That's that's the best. And it's and I
don't and it's not enough and it's
incredibly frustrating.
But I I actually read about a study
recently where they take young children
and they do exactly that. they just they
show them adverts and they get them to
point out how it's trying to influence
their emotions. They ask them to try and
track the source of it etc. And just
that practice um increased their
awareness and therefore reduced their
likelihood of being impacted by a
scammer ad.
So I go one step further and it's
controversial and I've gotten some some
push back on it. I actually teach kids
how to create bad content. I teach them
how to be trolls not so that they can
become professional trolls so that they
can identify when those tools are being
used against them. I do this where I
have them simulate a um let's say for
example I'll have them simulate a Senate
campaign um like a political race and
I'll say I want you to f to take uh
existing Instagram and Tik Tok videos
and absolutely deep tweak them modify
them pull them out of context make the
other person say things that they never
said take positions that they didn't and
then the students do this and then I had
one that actually made its way to the
Senate Democratic National Committee and
they thought it was a real campaign I
said it wasn't it was done through my
students, they had marked it clearly as
educational, but what the students
learned was, "Oh my god, if it's this
easy for me to create it, how what about
things content that's coming at me
that now made them aware that made them
the equivalent of leaving the United
States to see what is it like in other
parts?" When you see what it looks like
from the other side, when you actually
create it, you realize how what it might
look like. That's one tool. And I'm not
trying to teach them again how to, you
know, it's like not I'm not trying to
teach you to steal a car so you can make
a life out of stealing cars, but to
teach you to design a safer car.
Closing comments then
to sort of encapsulate again for the for
the listener at home, how they should be
thinking, what they might do in their
own lives to live a better life to to
result in a better outcome for
themselves, their families, and for
everyone else. Um, starting with with
you, Annie, what would you say? I think
that more information is good. More
information sources allow a person to
figure out what it is that's meaningful
to them. But I think you have to be
disciplined about how you get
information. I mean, I do a thing with
myself where I I time the amount I
actually set a timer for the amount of
time I'm on X or wherever because and it
always goes off and invariably I'm like,
I must have missed the timer, you know?
And yet, if I'm reading something
analog, a book of poetry, as I sometimes
do, or a book of non-fiction or fiction
as I often do, you know, that's a
different kind of time. And so, I think
it's very valuable to be aware of that.
And so, my two things and my takeaways
just off the comments about like where
you can be really become dissatisfied
with the state of the world and the
speed of information. For me, it's just
like father time and mother nature. I
spend a lot of time outside or as much
as I can rather given how much writing I
do. But like I just go out and connect
on go on a walk in the winter. I ski, I
hike, I'll go do a yoga class. I mean
this may sound like what does this have
to do with any of this but it does
because I really believe the human
condition doesn't change even though all
this technology does and that we have to
have this balance in our own self of all
this stuff coming at us and just
existing in the world and then you
figure out how you want to change evolve
and in my case report
Benjamin
the biggest thing I would say is to and
I tell this to my students all the time
I don't care what position position you
take, what views you have. I don't care
what you end up doing with your life.
Promise me you will stay curious.
Promise me you will ask questions.
Promise me you still want to learn and
you don't become complacent. And that
means being active in your community on
a small civic scale, understanding who
you're electing for, who you're electing
on a small scale, but not just being
apathetic because if you don't make
decisions about what is going to happen
to you, others will make them for you.
And I promise you won't like the
outcome. I think curiosity is the first
line of defense towards protecting um
what you value.
Andrew,
I would tell everybody to be very
diligent with where they learn and
frankly as far as the people that I've
met, uh Steve, you are a phenomenal
source of information and the people
that you vet to bring on this show are
fantastic. So, if people don't know
where else to start, this is a fantastic
place to start. If anybody's still
listening or for all of them that are
still listening, they already know this
to be true. Um, and then the the other
thing I would say on top of that is if
you don't want to radically change like
I am so willing to radically change for
my family, small steps are where it all
begins. Just small steps and
understanding what are your kids
watching on their screens? What is your
wife watching or your husband? What are
they reading on their screens? What do
they think about the world? Because
we're not going into a world that is
going to inform us on its own. So, we
must inform ourselves and the only way
to trust the information that you have
is to be very diligent with what it is
that you're consuming.
Thank you. Thank you so much. Um, I
always come at these conversations from
a selfish perspective because I somewhat
think that's the maybe the more selfless
thing to do. And um, I had so many
questions about the nature of the world.
And through the gauntlet of subjects
that we've been through today, I've
found many many of the of those answers.
I feel more hopeful in a way, but I feel
more prepared against the things that
I'm hopeless about. One of the things I
don't think about enough is, as you've
said, the information that I'm getting.
And it feels almost wrong in the world
we live in to put barriers and systems
in place to filter the information we're
getting because our natural state is
just to open up our phones, just to look
at the news, look at the screen. Um, and
and it's almost against, I guess, human
cognition to to then try and apply
another filter between that. And then
you worry about the filter you might
apply and do I mute people? Do I block
certain words? Do I not look at that
news channel? But then I'm just in this
echo chamber. So, it's it's quite a
complicated situation to be in. What I
return to most of the time is I um I
return to kind of what Annie said, which
is my Maslovian needs of connection and
and loving someone and having a good
life um are maybe my refuge amongst all
the angst. But then again, I have I have
a conflict because I don't want to be
ignorant and I don't want to be in a
suspended state of disbelief where these
decisions happen without my choosing and
with my knowledge. So I maintain my
curiosity and maybe that is the answer.
Maybe it's a complicated mix of
everything all of you have discussed.
And I thank you all for being here today
and being um um civil and respectful and
disagreeable in a certain areas with
your opinions because I think that's
exactly what we're missing so much of.
It's a difference of opinion but a
respect for the same outcome. So, thank
you so much.
Thank you.
This has always blown my mind a little
bit. 53% of you that listen to this show
regularly haven't yet subscribed to the
show. So, could I ask you for a favor?
If you like the show and you like what
we do here and you want to support us,
the free simple way that you can do just
that is by hitting the subscribe button.
And my commitment to you is if you do
that, then I'll do everything in my
power, me and my team, to make sure that
this show is better for you every single
week. We'll listen to your feedback.
We'll find the guests that you want me
to speak to and we'll continue to do
what we do. Thank you so much.
[Music]